The ownership of a ship means that the owner of the ship has the right to possess, use, enjoy the benefits of and dispose of the ship according to law.
When an emergency occurs abroad, the dispatching agency shall immediately initiate emergency plans in accordance with the emergency handling system and report to the local people’s government and the subordinate maritime administration in a timely manner.
After receiving the application materials for ship registration, the ship registration authority shall review whether the application materials are complete, whether the application materials conform to the legal form, whether the content of the application and the attached materials are consistent, and whether the application materials are originals or consistent with the originals.
The claim period for the charter contract of the voyage is two years, counting from the date when the right was infringed upon or should have been known.
The owners or operators of old transport ships shall accept the supervision and inspection of the Ministry of Transport and the Waterway Transport Administration, Maritime Administration, in accordance with the law, and shall truthfully submit relevant certificates, materials or information, and shall not refuse, conceal or make false statements.
The waterway transport operator shall handle the cancellation and return the license within 15 working days from the date of termination of operation to the original licensing authority.
The insurance contract of marine insurance does not stipulate the insurance value, and the insured person requests the insurer to bear the insurance compensation liability according to the loss amount or the insurance amount. The insurer claims to bear the proportional compensation liability according to the provision of Article 238 of the Maritime Commercial Law because the insurance value is higher than the insurance amount stipulated in the insurance contract. The insurer should bear the burden of proof for the insurance value.
If the application is within the jurisdiction of the registration authority, the application materials are complete, the application form is filled in completely, and the copy is consistent with the original, the application shall be accepted and the applicant shall be notified in writing.
The case is not subject to the procedure of confirmation of judgment, and the parties may file an appeal to the Maritime Court according to law.
If there is a change in the registration items of the vessel ownership, the vessel owner shall apply for the change of registration by presenting the change of registration items and the relevant vessel registration certificate to the vessel registration authority of the home port.
The Oil Pollution Damage Fund refers to the compensation liability limit fund established by the shipowner, the insurer or the financial guarantor of the shipowner for the oil pollution damage caused by the oil tanker carrying persistent oil.
If the period of detention of the shipment is over, the respondent does not provide security, and the shipment is not suitable for further detention, the maritime claimant may apply for auction of the shipment to the maritime court that detained the shipment after filing a lawsuit or applying for arbitration.
When the dispatching agency of seafarers refuses to accept or is unable to accept the responsibility for the occurrence of an overseas emergency, the directly underneath maritime administration may use the reserve fund of seafarer dispatching to pay for the expenses of the seafarers returning home or receiving other emergency relief.
According to maritime practice and maritime customs, in the process of transportation of bulk commodities, there is often a shortage within a reasonable range due to natural loss, scattered loss and weighing errors during loading and unloading, and measurement errors of water gauge weighing.
The loading and unloading period and the calculation method of the charter contract of the voyage, the delay fee after the expiration of the loading and unloading period and the expediting fee for completing the loading and unloading in advance shall be agreed by both parties.
For vessels constructed abroad, the owner of the vessel shall apply for the temporary nationality certificate of the vessel to the vessel registration authority of the construction location, holding the vessel construction contract and handover documents as well as the valid vessel technical certificate.
The injured party claims for the loss of income caused by the pollution of its property or the environment shall be calculated by deducting the actual net income during the period of damage from the average net income of the same period of the previous three years, and the reasonable determination shall be made after taking into account other relevant factors that affect the income.
In the same maritime accident, different liable persons shall apply to different maritime courts for the establishment of a maritime compensation liability restriction fund according to the provisions of Article 102 of the Special Maritime Procedure Law before litigation. The maritime court that accepts the case later shall transfer the case to the jurisdiction of the maritime court that accepted the case earlier according to the provisions of the Civil Procedure Law.
These rules are implemented by the State Council of the People's Republic of China, and the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on the Management of Ports for Foreign Vessels, issued by the Ministry of Communications of the People's Republic of China on March 12, 1957, are simultaneously abolished.
The Maritime Court accepts the lawsuits filed by parties in maritime tort disputes, maritime commercial contract disputes, and other maritime disputes stipulated by law.
The carrier shall be liable for the acts of the actual carrier or the acts of the employees or agents of the actual carrier within the scope of their employment or agency.
If the applicant for the port berth obtained the use of the port berth by fraudulent means, such as bribery, the use of the port berth shall be revoked.
In violation of Article 30 of the Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law, if the person refuses the on-site inspection of the maritime administration or makes false statements, he/she shall be punished according to Article 81 of the Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law.
When constructing vessels overseas, the vessel owner shall apply for an interim nationality certificate of the vessel to the Chinese embassy or consulate abroad, holding the shipbuilding contract and handover documents as well as valid ship technical certificate.
The dispatching agency of seafarers shall be marked with the yearly review of the seafarer dispatching agency qualification certificate by the directly underneath maritime administration.
The damage compensation between the colliding ships shall be governed by the law of the flag state, regardless of where the collision occurs.
The ship inspection agency shall strictly inspect the foreign-flagged ships purchased or leased under bareboat charter conditions according to the relevant statutory inspection technical rules and this provision.
The person in charge of the port supervision or rescue department shall arrive at the scene, and the captain of the sunken vessel shall report the accident and the measures taken immediately, provide necessary information and convenience for rescue, and make suggestions on rescue.
The court shall support the carrier to claim the freight, storage fee, container overdue use fee or other fees arising from the unclaimed goods according to the transportation contract.
The actual carrier shall be responsible for the acts of the actual carrier or the employees or agents of the actual carrier within the scope of their employment or commission.
The maritime transportation shall be managed by the Ministry of Transport of the State Council, and the specific measures shall be formulated by the Ministry of Transport of the State Council and implemented after being approved by the State Council.
Company security personnel refers to personnel designated by the company to conduct ship security assessment, formulate and submit the ship security plan for examination and approval, implement and maintain the ship security plan after examination and approval, and liaise with port facility security personnel and ship security personnel.
Vessels shall apply for approval from the maritime administration in accordance with law when conducting inland waterway dangerous goods barge operations or offshore bulk liquid pollution hazardous goods barge operations outside the port waters.
Ships with ownership transfer due to allocation, restructuring or asset reorganization of government organs, enterprises and institutions shall submit the allocation documents or asset reorganization documents of ownership transfer and handover documents issued by the authorized unit.
The safety management of dangerous goods in ports adheres to the principles of safety first, prevention as the mainstay, and comprehensive governance, and strengthens and implements the safety production main responsibility of the construction unit and the port operator of the dangerous goods port construction project.
Losses caused by delay of the vessel or cargo, including loss of time and market, and other indirect losses, whether they occur during the voyage or after the voyage, shall not be included in the general maritime claims.
The vessel and its owner or operator shall pay the fees specified in the preceding paragraph or provide the corresponding financial guarantee before the vessel is put into operation.
The ship owner, operator or manager shall provide training and examination on the professional knowledge of solid bulk cargo to the crew, and ensure that the crew is familiar with the characteristics of solid bulk cargo, operation procedures and emergency plans.
The measures taken to prohibit entry into or expulsion from the port shall also be notified to the competent authorities of the State where the vessel is intended to anchor and to other coastal States concerned.
For ships that fail to provide the information mentioned in the preceding paragraph or that the maritime administration considers to be inconsistent with the requirements of Chapter VIII of the SOLAS Convention, the ISPS Code and this Regulation, the maritime administration may take administrative compulsory measures such as conducting compulsory inspections, requiring the ships to correct the problems immediately or within a specified period, requiring the ships to head to a designated location, and prohibiting the ships from entering ports.
After receiving the special plan for the relevant general plan and control plan for the port area and operation area and relevant materials, the Ministry of Transport and the people's government of province and autonomous region and their port administrative departments shall submit written opinions within 30 working days, and the failure to do so shall be deemed as approval.
If you do not obtain the International Ship and Vessel Transport Operation License and engage in the international passenger ship and international bulk liquid dangerous goods ship transport operation business, the Ministry of Transport of the State Council or the local people’s government transport administration department authorized by it shall order you to stop the operation.
When two or more dangerous goods port operators conduct dangerous goods port operations in the same port area, which may endanger the production safety of the other party, they shall sign a safety production management agreement, clarify their respective safety production management responsibilities and safety measures to be taken, and designate special safety production management personnel to conduct safety inspections and coordination.
Foreign crew members serving on foreign-flagged vessels sailing, anchoring or operating in waters under the jurisdiction of the People’s Republic of China shall hold the corresponding certificates stipulated by international treaties concluded or acceded to by the People’s Republic of China and relevant identity documents issued by the government of their respective countries.
When the items of registration of a vessel change, the vessel owner shall carry the relevant certificate of vessel registration and the certificate of change to the vessel registration authority of the home port to handle the change of registration.
The maritime court shall release the maritime conservatory measure in a timely manner if the person under request provides a guarantee or if the parties have a legitimate reason to apply for the release of the maritime conservatory measure.
The proceeds of the auction of the vessel and the interest thereon, or the Maritime Claims Fund and the interest thereon, shall be distributed together.
Except for emergency rescue or life-saving, the passenger ship shall carry passengers according to the number of passengers specified in the ship inspection certificate, and the cargo ship shall carry cargo according to the load line and type of cargo specified in the ship inspection certificate, and shall not carry passengers.
The crew members of foreign ships entering the inland waters, territorial seas and waters under jurisdiction of the People's Republic of China shall comply with the relevant provisions of the relevant international conventions concluded or participated by the government of the People's Republic of China.
If the ship owner's residence or the shipping route changes, resulting in a change of the ship registration authority, and an application for an interim nationality certificate of the ship is required, the ship owner shall submit relevant change certification documents and valid ship technical certificates to the original ship registration authority.
Any person other than the person responsible for taking measures to avoid or reduce the loss for which the person responsible may be liable under this chapter, and any claim for compensation for further loss caused by such measures.
If the fault of the rescuer fails to prevent or reduce the environmental pollution damage, the rescuer may be deprived of the right to obtain special compensation in whole or in part.
If the ship management business operator fails to provide the corresponding ship management and engineering management personnel as required by this regulation, the water transport administration department of the people's government at or above the county level shall order it to make corrections, and a fine of RMB 10,000 to RMB 30,000 shall be imposed.
In violation of Article 63 of the Regulations on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals, the shipper shall be ordered to correct it by the Maritime Administration according to Article 86 of the Regulations on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals, and a fine of RMB 50,000 to RMB 100,000 shall be imposed on the shipper if the shipper fails to inform the carrier of the type, quantity, hazard characteristics and emergency measures for dangerous chemicals transported by ship or fails to package the dangerous chemicals properly and affix corresponding signs on the outer packaging in accordance with the relevant provisions of the state.
If there is no objection within 90 days from the date of announcement of the re-issuance of the certificate of ownership registration, and if there is no objection within 3 days from the date of announcement of the re-issuance of the certificate of nationality registration and the certificate of cancellation of registration of the vessel, the vessel registration authority shall re-issue the new certificates.
According to Article 14, paragraph 1 of the Provisions of the Supreme People's Court on the Application of Laws in the Trial of Cases of Delivery of Goods under Bill of Lading without Original Copy, the period of limitation for the lawsuit filed by the holder of the original bill of lading against the carrier on the ground of non-delivery of the bill of lading is one year, which shall be calculated from the date when the carrier should deliver the bill of lading to the holder of the bill of lading, i.e. from the reasonable date when the goods are delivered to the port of destination and are in a condition for delivery.
If the administrative department of ports does not perform its supervisory and inspection duties in accordance with the law, and if it fails to deal with the illegal acts of building ports, wharves and other facilities without obtaining the approval of the competent authorities in accordance with the law, the persons directly responsible for the management and other persons directly responsible shall be given administrative penalties in accordance with the law; and if the acts constitute crimes, the persons directly responsible shall be held criminally liable in accordance with the law.
The maritime claimant claimed that the person liable had no right to limit the compensation liability because the ship involved in the maritime accident was unseaworthy, but it could not prove that the loss causing the claim for compensation was caused by the person liable himself or herself by intention or by knowing that it might cause loss and carelessly doing or not doing something. The people’s court did not support it.
If the port operator violates the relevant laws and administrative regulations in the course of its operation and engages in monopolistic or unfair competition, it shall bear legal liability in accordance with the relevant laws and administrative regulations.
The owner or agent of the goods shall entrust the relevant technical institutions to conduct the assessment and classification of the pollution hazard of the goods, determine the safe transportation conditions, and only then shall the goods be loaded onto the ship.
Natural persons, legal persons or non-legal persons who believe that the credit information published by the customs is inaccurate may lodge an objection to the customs and provide relevant materials or evidence.
In violation of the provisions of the Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law, if a ship causes water pollution accidents, it shall be fined with 20% of the direct losses according to the provisions of Article 94 of the Water Pollution Prevention and Control Law if it causes general or serious water pollution accidents.
The carrier may be exempted or the compensation liability of the carrier may be reduced correspondingly if the carrier proves that the death, personal injury or loss of baggage of the passenger is caused by the fault of the passenger or joint fault of the passenger and the carrier.
The inspected units and relevant personnel shall cooperate with the supervision and inspection of the navigation maintenance management department, truthfully provide relevant information and materials, and shall not conceal, falsify or refuse inspection.
Before and during the towing, the towed object shall be prepared for towing, handled with caution, and kept in a suitable state for towing. The towing party shall truthfully inform the towing party of the condition of the towed object and provide relevant certificates and documents issued by the inspection agency to prove that the towed object is suitable for towing.
Where the insurer exercises the right of subrogation, and the insured person has sued the third party causing the insurance accident, the insurer may apply to the court accepting the case to change the parties and exercise the right of the insured person to claim compensation from the third party on behalf of the insured person.
Vessels engaged in the transportation of goods or coastal operations between ports of the People's Republic of China shall purchase oil pollution liability insurance or obtain other financial guarantees, and the limit thereof shall be calculated as 50% of the limit stipulated in Article 6.
The fixed facilities such as ports, passenger stations, warehouses, tanks, shore power supply, sewage pretreatment facilities shall conform to the requirements of the overall plan of the port and the laws, regulations and relevant technical standards.
After the cleaning unit completes the cleaning operation assigned by the maritime administration, the people's court shall accept the civil lawsuit filed by the cleaning unit for the cleaning fee directly to the polluter.
Vessels and relevant operating units that cause pollution accidents shall submit the Pollution Accident Report of Vessel to the nearby maritime administration within 24 hours after the accident.
Customs shall, according to the standards and procedures stipulated in this method, certify enterprises as advanced certified enterprises upon their application, and implement management measures to facilitate their operations.
If the water transport operator or its vessel fails to meet the qualification conditions for operation within the specified period after correction, the water transport management department of the county-level people's government where the operator is located shall report to the original permit-issuing organization to revoke its operation permit or vessel operation certificate.
The port operator of dangerous goods shall inspect the packaging and marking of dangerous goods, and shall not operate if the packaging and marking are not in accordance with the relevant national regulations. The port operator shall promptly notify or return the dangerous goods to the operator entrusted with the operation for handling.
When a vessel or offshore facility is exposed to bad weather, sea conditions or accidents, causing or may cause damage, the specific circumstances such as the time, sea area and countermeasures taken shall be explained and recorded, and then an application for handling a maritime declaration seal may be made to the maritime administration.
Packages of dangerous goods to be transported by the ship shall meet the relevant laws, technical specifications and international conventions, and shall be subject to corresponding inspection and obtain the inspection qualification certificate in accordance with the law.
The charter contract of a ship with a lease-purchase clause shall be deemed to be owned by the lessee when the lessee pays the lease-purchase fee to the lessor according to the contract.
If a vessel carrying dangerous goods violates this regulation and fails to apply for declaration to the maritime management institution in accordance with law when entering or leaving ports, and if it transports dangerous goods in inland waterways, the person in charge or other direct responsible person shall be fined RMB 20,000 to RMB 100,000.
The lessee of a ship chartered under bareboat charter shall, within 15 days from the expiration of the bareboat charter contract or the termination of the bareboat charter relationship, present the documentary evidence of the termination of the bareboat charter contract or the termination of the bareboat charter relationship to the ship registration authority of the home port of the ship to handle the cancellation of registration.
If the holder of the bill of lading does not claim delivery of the goods or exercise other rights against the carrier at the port of destination, the costs and risks arising from the non-delivery of the goods shall be borne by the consignor.
The day following the expiration of the period for filing a claim registration as provided for in Article 112 of the Maritime Procedure Law for Special Proceedings shall be the 60th day after the last announcement of the acceptance of the application for the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund by the Maritime Court.
The registration application materials shall be originals, and if the originals cannot be provided, copies may be submitted, and at the same time, the certification documents confirming that the copies are consistent with the originals shall be submitted.
After the creditor initiates the proceedings for determination of the proportion of fault of the colliding ships in accordance with Article 116 (1) of the Maritime Procedure Law of Special Procedures for Maritime Claims, the proceedings for determination of the proportion of fault of the colliding ships shall not be applied to the case, and the parties may appeal the judgment or ruling of the Maritime Court in accordance with law.
If the administrative department of ports interferes with the right of port operators, cargo handling operators and operators engaged in ship port services, port facility and equipment leasing and maintenance to independently operate, the superior administrative organ or supervisory organ shall order them to correct it.
The Port Supervision may, according to the specific circumstances, notify the owner of the sunken vessel or sunken object to remove it within a specified time limit, or immediately organize the removal or dismantling, and all the responsibilities and expenses shall be borne by the owner of the sunken vessel or sunken object.
The parties to a dispute over compensation for damage caused by a marine pollution accident may request mediation by a maritime administration, apply for arbitration or bring a civil action to the people's court.
Vessels shall keep the "On-site Supervision Report of Vessels", "Flag State Supervision Inspection Report" and "Port State Supervision Inspection Report" properly and keep them on board for at least 2 years.
The coastal waters referred to in these rules mean the inland waters and territorial seas belonging to the People's Republic of China and the waters under the jurisdiction of the state.
The master plan of the port in a city that is not a directly administered city shall be reported to the Ministry of Transport and the people’s government of the province or the autonomous region for approval by the port administrative management department of the city where the port is located after being reviewed by the people’s government of the city.
After examination and verification, the ship registry of the ship's home port shall cancel the registration of the ship in the ship registration book, retrieve the relevant registration certificate, and issue a certificate of cancellation of ship registration to the ship owner.
The content and format of the International Ship Security Certificate and the Temporary International Ship Security Certificate shall be formulated by the ship inspection agency in accordance with the requirements of the SOLAS Convention and the ISPS Code.
After receiving the ship, the buyer shall hold the auction contract of acceptance and relevant materials and handle the ship ownership registration procedure with the ship registration authority.
Customs implements credit management for enterprises in accordance with the principles of facilitating compliance with laws and regulations, punishing violations of laws and regulations, and being fair and open in accordance with laws and regulations.
In case of natural disasters beyond human control and after taking timely preventive and rescue measures, the liability for pollution damage shall be exempted.
If dangerous goods handling and transshipment operations are not reported in accordance with this regulation and are agreed upon, the port administrative management department shall order the operations to be stopped and a fine of RMB 5,000 to RMB 50,000 shall be imposed.
The written service contract shall include the responsibilities of the dispatching agency for the seafarers during the period of dispatch, the responsibilities of the dispatching agency for the placement of the seafarers in case of emergency abroad, and the responsibilities for breach of contract, etc.
Where the personnel of the ship inspection institution abuse their power, engage in bribery, dereliction of duty, or serious negligence, resulting in serious defects in ships with inspection certificates issued or major accidents, the maritime administration shall revoke their inspection qualification.
The person responsible for the accident has not applied for the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund, which does not affect the person's maritime claim limitation defense in the lawsuit according to Article 207 of the Maritime Commercial Law.
If the vessel fails to keep the Oil Record Book, Cargo Record Book and Garbage Record Book as required, the maritime administration shall order the vessel to make corrections and impose a fine of RMB 1,000 to RMB 5,000.
After the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund, the parties to the maritime dispute shall bring an action to the Maritime Court where the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund is established, unless the parties have agreed on the jurisdiction of the court or the arbitration agreement.
Before the ship departs, an export report and other relevant forms should be submitted, and an export license should be issued after inspection.
The plaintiff did not raise an objection to the delivery of the goods in accordance with Article 81 of the Maritime Commercial Law, and then claimed compensation for the loss of the goods from the carrier. If there are multiple reasons and ranges for the loss of the goods, the plaintiff only proves that the loss of the goods may have occurred during the period of responsibility of the carrier, and cannot exclude the loss of the goods from the period of non-responsibility of the carrier, the people's court will not support it.
If the debtor is a foreigner, stateless person, foreign enterprise or organization, but has a domicile, representative office or branch office within the territory of the People’s Republic of China and can be served with a payment order, the creditor may apply to the maritime court with jurisdiction for a payment order.
The port operator shall apply for renewal to the licensing authority 30 days before the expiration date of the Port Operating License.
The departments with the qualification authority can decide whether to allow foreign-invested enterprises to engage in domestic waterway transportation according to the actual situation of domestic waterway transportation.
If the applicant for a maritime compulsory order in a maritime request makes a mistake, it shall compensate the respondent or interested party for the loss suffered thereby.
When the contract of bareboat charter expires or the relationship of bareboat charter is terminated, the lessor shall, within 15 days from the date of expiry of the contract of bareboat charter or the date of termination of the relationship of bareboat charter, present the certificate of ownership registration of the ship, the contract of bareboat charter or the certificate of termination of the relationship of bareboat charter to the ship registration authority of the home port of the ship to handle the cancellation of registration of bareboat charter.
The limit of liability of the carrier for the transportation of passengers by sea between ports of the People's Republic of China shall be formulated by the competent department of transportation under the State Council and implemented after being reported to and approved by the State Council.
The passenger's own baggage shall be transported in the same way as stipulated in the preceding paragraph, and other baggage of the passenger shall be transported from the time when the passenger hands over the baggage to the carrier or the person employed or authorized by the carrier to the time when the carrier or the person employed or authorized by the carrier hands over the baggage to the passenger.
There is evidence proving that the reason for the damage of the goods is the carrier’s violation of the obligations under Articles 47 and 48 of the Maritime Commercial Law, and the carrier’s invocation of the “ignorance clause” to claim exemption from liability is not supported by the people’s court.
When the overseas ship owner fails to perform the duty of emergency response in a timely and comprehensive manner, the dispatching agency shall handle the emergency properly to avoid harm to the interests of the dispatched seafarers.
The rescuers have the right to enjoy the rights and compensation provided for in this chapter for the rescue operation conducted or controlled by the relevant authorities of the state.
The State Council and the relevant local people’s governments shall, in accordance with the provisions of this Law, exercise supervision and management over international maritime transportation operations and relevant ancillary operations related to international maritime transportation.
During the loading and unloading of bulk liquid dangerous goods, other unrelated vessels shall not berth. The flexible hoses used shall comply with the relevant laws and technical standards, and shall be inspected regularly.
After the ship registration authority examines the ship registration application and finds that it meets the requirements, the ship registration authority registers the ship, records the registration application in the ship registration book, and issues the ship registration certificate.
If the parties to the ship pollution accident are not satisfied with the accident determination, they may apply for a re-determination to the ship pollution accident investigation and handling agency or its superior agency within 15 days from the date of receiving the ship pollution accident determination letter.
When applying for registration of the ownership of a vessel, the owner of the vessel shall present the original and copy of the documents that can prove his legal identity to the ship registration authority of the home port of the vessel, and provide the original and copy of the relevant technical information of the vessel and the certificate of ownership of the vessel.
If the creditor applies for payment order to the seafaring court with jurisdiction based on maritime affairs and the creditor's request for payment of money or securities is in line with the relevant provisions of the Civil Procedure Law of the People's Republic of China, the creditor may apply for payment order.
Foreigners and foreign vessels may apply for a review or initiate a lawsuit according to the relevant provisions of laws and regulations of the People's Republic of China if they are not satisfied with the fishery administrative punishment.
Oil pollution incident of a vessel means an incident or a series of incidents in which oil pollutants are leaked from a vessel or form a serious and urgent threat of oil pollution damage.
The port layout planning of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government and the port layout planning of ports across cities within the administrative regions of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government shall be reported to the port administrative management departments of the people’s governments of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government for review and approval, and the written opinions of the Ministry of Transport shall be sought.
The ship shall not be arrested except for maritime claims provided for in Article 21 of this Law, but for the execution of judgments, arbitration awards and other legal documents.
Maritime administration shall manage the unit engaged in the business of training seafarers in accordance with the provisions of laws and administrative regulations on the management of seafarers.
After the application for foreign fishing by foreign vessels is approved, the applicant shall pay the fishing fee and obtain the license from the Fishery Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the People’s Republic of China.
The auxiliary business organization of water transportation established in accordance with law may, in accordance with the provisions of laws, administrative regulations and articles of association, formulate the norms for the operation of auxiliary business of water transportation and service standards, organize professional ethics education and business training, and conduct self-disciplinary management of the business operation and service quality of its members.
For the application for ship ownership registration of ships acquired by inheritance, donation, auction in accordance with law, and court judgment, the applicant shall provide the relevant legal effective certificate of ship ownership.
The parties may bring an action against the responsible person for non-common damage losses without being affected by the joint damage litigation procedure for the same marine damage.
The waterway transport administration department shall record the violations and illegal behaviors of operators found or accepted during supervision and inspection, as well as the handling and safety responsibility accidents, in the credit file.
In violation of Article 29 of the Regulations on the Administration of Inland Navigation Safety, if you conduct operations or activities that may affect the safety of navigation in inland waterways that are open to navigation without setting up signs or displaying signals as required, you shall be fined RMB 5,000 to RMB 50,000 in accordance with Article 70 of the Regulations on the Administration of Inland Navigation Safety.
In case the content of the insurance certificate issued by the insurer is inconsistent with the content of the insurance certificate booked in advance, the insurance certificate issued by the insurer shall be the reference.
The department of waterway transportation management shall establish a complete mechanism for supervision and management of the integrity of waterway transportation auxiliary business operators and a system for evaluating the quality of services, establish a file of the integrity of waterway transportation auxiliary business operators, record the information of the integrity of waterway transportation auxiliary business operators and practitioners, and publish the supervision and inspection results and the integrity files of the operators to the public regularly.
The ship’s priority creditor shall directly claim the priority claim of the ship’s priority creditor from the auction price of the ship that generates the priority claim after the ship owner enters the bankruptcy proceedings, and the claim shall be paid in priority without exceeding the statutory period of exercising the priority of the ship, and the debt secured by the priority of the ship shall be paid in priority before the general bankruptcy debt.
In the course of supervision and inspection, the waterway transport administration department shall order the waterway transport operator to rectify the conditions of business qualification that do not meet the requirements of this regulation, and shall conduct a review of the rectification of the operator after the rectification period, and make a conclusion on whether the rectification is qualified.
After accepting the application for the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund, the Maritime Court shall notify the known interested parties within seven days and publish the notice in newspapers or other news media.
The rescued vessel or other property shall not be removed from the port or place of first arrival after the completion of the rescue operation without the consent of the rescuer before the rescuer provides satisfactory guarantee in accordance with the request of the rescued person.
The ship inspection agency shall conduct factory recognition, type recognition and product inspection on the ship products within the scope of statutory inspection according to the statutory inspection technical requirements of ship products.
For the newly-built ships sold abroad, the ship owner shall apply for the provisional nationality certificate of the ship to the ship registration authority of the place of construction, holding the certificate of ownership of the ship and the valid ship technology certificate.
Maritime evidence preservation refers to the compulsory measures taken by the Maritime Court to extract, preserve or seal the evidence related to the maritime claim according to the application of the maritime claimant.
A ship that is jointly and severally liable is entitled to recourse against other ships that are at fault in excess of the proportion provided for in paragraph 1 of this article.
The owner, operator or manager of the obstacle shall set warning signs in accordance with the requirements of relevant compulsory standards and technical specifications, report the name, shape, size, location and depth of the obstacle to the maritime administration, and remove it within the time limit specified by the maritime administration.
The terms of the contract for the carriage of goods by sea and the bill of lading or other transport document serving as a contract of carriage are invalid if they contravene the provisions of this chapter.
The certificate of suspension or cancellation of the nationality of the vessel issued by the original port of registry of the vessel, or the certificate of suspension or cancellation of the nationality of the vessel at the time of re-registration.
During the suspension of new capacity authorization, the application for new capacity within the scope of suspension shall not be authorized, and the Shipping Business Operation Certificate shall not be issued to the vessels applying for operation, except for the vessels that have obtained the approval for new capacity and have started construction, acquisition or lease before the suspension decision takes effect.
The application shall state the amount and reasons for the application for the establishment of the limit of liability fund for maritime claims, as well as the name, address and contact method of the known interested parties, and be accompanied by relevant evidence.
Solid bulk cargoes that are harmful to the environment are solid bulk cargoes that meet the criteria for determining harmful substances to the marine environment in the annex V of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships.
If the ship management business operator terminates the business, it shall handle the cancellation within 15 working days from the date of termination of business and return the license.
The specific standards and norms for the review of the Ship Safety Management Plan and the issuance of the International Ship Security Certificate and the Temporary International Ship Security Certificate by the ship inspection agency shall be filed with the China Maritime Safety Administration.
Any foreigner or foreign vessel shall conduct fishery production, biological resources survey and other activities in the waters under the jurisdiction of the People’s Republic of China after obtaining approval from the Fishery Administration and Port Supervision and Management Bureau of the People’s Republic of China and complying with the laws, regulations and international treaties and agreements concluded or participated in by the People’s Republic of China.
If the person being towed fails to pay the towing fee and other reasonable expenses as agreed, the person towing has the right to retain the towed object.
Vessels shall equip with corresponding anti-pollution equipment and instruments according to the relevant provisions of the state, and hold legal and valid certificates and documents for preventing pollution of the water environment.
If the oil leakage caused by collision between two ships with mutual faults results in oil pollution damage, the injured party may request the owner of the leaking oil ship to bear the full compensation liability.
In violation of Article 64 of the Regulations on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals, if hazardous chemicals are transported by ship, if hazardous chemicals are mixed with ordinary goods or if hazardous chemicals are falsely or concealed as ordinary goods, the maritime management institution shall order the rectification in accordance with Article 87 of the Regulations on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals, and impose a fine of RMB 100,000 to 200,000 on the shipper, and confiscate the illegal gains.
The carrier invoked Article 7 of the Provisions of the Supreme People's Court on the Application of Laws in Cases of Delivery of Goods without Original Bill of Lading, and claimed that it should not bear civil liability for delivery of goods without bill of lading. The carrier should provide the law of the unloading port, and provide evidence that it has lost the control of the goods after delivery of the goods to the local customs or port authorities in accordance with the law of the unloading port.
The port administrative management department is responsible for the preliminary design approval of the construction project of dangerous goods port, and the safety facility design is reviewed in the preliminary design approval.
The employing unit of the crew and the crew shall participate in the work injury insurance, medical insurance, old-age insurance, unemployment insurance and other social insurance according to the relevant provisions of the state, and pay the insurance fees in full and on time in accordance with the law.
If the creditors’ meeting cannot reach a consensus, the maritime court shall, in accordance with the payment sequence stipulated in the Maritime Commercial Law of the People’s Republic of China and other relevant laws and regulations, determine the distribution plan of the ship’s price or the limit of liability for maritime claims.
The person responsible shall apply to the maritime court accepting the relevant maritime dispute case to establish the maritime compensation liability restriction fund in the course of the litigation.
If the provisions of this Regulation on prevention and control of vessel pollution in boundary river waters are inconsistent with international conventions or agreements concluded or joined by China, the international conventions or agreements concluded or joined by China shall apply.
Units and individuals shall cooperate with the supervision and inspection of the ocean administrative department, and shall not refuse or obstruct the supervision and inspection personnel from performing their duties in accordance with the law.
After inspection of Chinese-flagged ships sailing domestically, marine facilities, marine products, and cargo containers for ship transport, if the inspection results meet the relevant statutory technical requirements, domestic ship inspection agencies shall issue the corresponding inspection certificate or technical document using the national statutory inspection issuance system for ships.
A vessel registered in a foreign country shall not be granted the nationality of the People’s Republic of China if its original nationality in the country of registration has not been canceled or revoked.
The supervision and administration of fishing vessels, fishing radio and fishing buoys, the registration management of fishing vessels, the management of maritime traffic safety in fishing ports, and the investigation and handling of traffic accidents between fishing vessels (including foreign fishing vessels) shall be handled by the fishery and fishery administration departments of the people’s government at or above the county level.
"Property" means any property that is not permanently attached to the shore and is not intentionally placed there, including freight at risk.
In violation of the relevant provisions of the Inland Navigation Safety Management Regulations, vessels shall not follow the navigation, avoidance and signal display rules when navigating, mooring or operating on inland waterways, and shall be fined RMB 1,000 to RMB 10,000 according to Article 81 of the Inland Navigation Safety Management Regulations.
After the ship owner enters bankruptcy proceedings, the party cannot apply for arrest of the ship, which is a situation where the statutory priority of the ship cannot be exercised through arrest, and this period shall not be counted in the statutory period of exercising the priority of the ship.
The port operator shall be designated by the ship owner, operator and the shipper, consignee, and the operator of auxiliary water transportation service provider shall provide services such as ship transportation and water transportation of goods, and the county-level or higher people’s government department of water transportation management shall order the correction, and a fine of RMB 10,000 to RMB 30,000 shall be imposed if the correction is not made.
If a ship has multiple mortgage registrations and the change item involves changes in the amount of the secured debt, and if it has an adverse impact on other mortgagees, documents proving the written consent of other mortgagees to the change shall also be submitted.
It is prohibited for enterprises, institutions and other producers and operators without a discharge permit or in violation of the provisions of the discharge permit to discharge wastewater or sewage as specified in the preceding paragraph into water bodies.
In violation of Article 31 of the Inland Waterway Traffic Safety Management Regulations and Article 18 of the Regulations on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals, vessels transporting hazardous chemicals and their containers loaded on board were put into use without passing the inspection, and the vessels’ owners or operators were ordered to correct the violation, and were fined between RMB 100,000 and RMB 200,000, and the illegal gains were confiscated if any.
The collision of the vessels was caused by force majeure or other reasons that cannot be attributed to any party or cannot be identified, and the parties to the collision are not liable for compensation.
The company may conduct the security assessment by the company security staff, or entrust the institution with the qualification of ship security assessment to conduct the security assessment of a specific ship; the institution conducting the ship security assessment shall be responsible for the conclusion of the assessment.
The shipper shall inform the carrier of the official name, hazardous nature and protective measures to be taken for the dangerous goods, and properly pack them with clear hazardous goods signs and labels in accordance with the requirements of relevant laws, administrative regulations, rules and compulsory standards and technical specifications.
The master plan of major ports shall be formulated by the specific implementing departments of port administrative management determined by the directly administered city where the port is located, the port administrative management department of the city people’s government or the department of port administrative management of the people’s government of the province or the autonomous region.
The domestic ship inspection agency shall implement equivalent and exemption requirements for statutory inspection of Chinese-flagged ships and floating facilities according to the statutory inspection technical standards of ships, and shall meet the same effectiveness and safety level as the requirements of the international convention on maritime affairs or the statutory inspection technical standards of ships, and shall report to the Maritime Bureau of the Ministry of Transport; except for the provisions of the statutory inspection technical standards of ships.
If the ship owner or operator violates the relevant provisions of ship registration and inspection in this Regulation, the maritime administration shall impose administrative penalties in accordance with the relevant laws, administrative regulations and rules.
The owner or operator of Chinese-flagged vessels or floating facilities shall apply for periodic inspection to the domestic vessel inspection agency that issues the vessel inspection certificate.
Maritime claims for which the charterer, not the owner of the vessel, is responsible, may be arrested, auctioned off, and if the charterer enters into bankruptcy proceedings, although the maritime claim is a bankruptcy claim, the vessel leased by the charterer is not the property of the charterer, but not the bankruptcy property, and creditors may clear the debts through maritime proceedings, not bankruptcy proceedings.
The ship pollutant receiving unit shall handle the received ship pollutants according to the relevant provisions of the country on pollutant treatment, and report the receiving and handling of ship pollutants to the maritime administration authority every month.
If the damage of oil pollution caused by the oil tanker is not applied for registration of claim within the specified period, the injured party shall be deemed to have waived the right to claim compensation from the Oil Pollution Compensation Fund.
Legal inspection means that the flag state government or the ship inspection institution recognized by it shall conduct compulsory inspection on the safety technical conditions of ships, floating facilities, marine products and shipping cargo containers according to laws, administrative regulations, rules and legal inspection technical standards.
If the charter period of the sailing vessel needs to be extended, the lessor and lessee shall apply for the extension registration with the vessel registration authority 15 days before the expiration of the charter contract, and shall present the original and copy of the sailing vessel charter registration certificate and the original and copy of the extension contract.
The parties and other persons involved in the marine pollution accident shall cooperate with the investigation and truthfully report the facts and provide information, and shall not fabricate, conceal, destroy evidence or obstruct the investigation by other means.
The general creditor of the registered owner of the ship in pledge shall not be the "bona fide third party" stipulated in Article 225 of the Civil Code, and its right to claim shall not be superior to the real owner of the pledged ship.
The dispatching agency for seafarers shall comply with the relevant provisions of the state management of seafarers, management of seafarer services, management of seafarer certificates, labor and social security, and international conventions concluded or acceded to by the People’s Republic of China, and fulfill its obligations of good faith and honesty.
The Seafarer's Certificate of the People's Republic of China (hereinafter referred to as the Seafarer's Certificate) is a certificate issued to Chinese seafarers to prove their citizenship of the People's Republic of China when they are on duty abroad.
An application for the operation of ship management business or a change in the scope of operation of ship management business shall be submitted to the water transport management department of the municipal people’s government at the place where the applicant is located, along with an application and relevant materials to prove that the applicant meets the requirements of these regulations.
In case of death of crew members on board, the port supervision department shall be immediately informed; in case of damage or casualties caused by negligence of either the ship or the port personnel within the port, the scene shall be preserved, and both parties shall report to the port supervision department in a timely manner.
In order to strengthen the management of the seas and safeguard the ownership of the seas and the legitimate rights and interests of the seas users, promote the rational development and sustainable utilization of the seas, this Law is formulated.
Foreign crew members working on Chinese-flagged vessels shall obtain employment permits in accordance with laws, administrative regulations and other relevant provisions of the state, and shall hold the corresponding certificates prescribed by the State Council’s transportation administration department and relevant identity documents issued by their respective governments.
Units that need to dump waste must apply to the State Oceanic Administration, and after approval by the State Oceanic Administration and the issuance of a permit, they may dump the waste.
If the application materials contain errors that can be corrected on the spot, the applicant shall be informed and allowed to correct them on the spot. After the applicant corrects them, the application shall be accepted and the applicant shall be informed in writing.
The fishery and port supervision and administration institutions of the People's Republic of China and their inspectors may take necessary measures such as boarding, inspection, expulsion, detention, etc. on foreign vessels when necessary, and may exercise the right of hot pursuit.
Vessels navigating within the country shall, according to the type of vessel, present the vessel inspection certificate book and other valid vessel technical certificates issued by the vessel inspection agency authorized by law.
If the insurance amount is lower than the insurance value, the insurer shall bear the compensation liability according to the proportion of the insurance amount and the insurance value when the insured item suffers partial loss.
A creditor who has a security right in a mortgaged ship, a right of retention and a priority right in the ship applies for the arrest of the mortgaged ship, and the actual owner of the mortgaged ship claims the release of the arrest, the people’s court shall not support it, except for the evidence proving that the creditor is not a bona fide third party.
Vessels that have obtained the Ship Operation Transport Certificate shall, within 15 working days from the date of scrapping, transfer or change of operator, handle the cancellation and change of the Ship Operation Transport Certificate with the original licensing authority.
The port operators, the operators of cargo handling services, and the operators of ship port services, port facilities and equipment and machinery rental and maintenance shall abide by the relevant laws, regulations, rules and relevant service standards and norms, fulfill their obligations in accordance with the contract, and handle port operations and cargo handling operations impartially and accurately, providing fair and good services to customers.
The ship chartering contract, including the contract of regular ship chartering and bareboat chartering, shall be written.
In the event of an accident outside the jurisdictional waters of the People’s Republic of China involving a foreign vessel that causes serious injury or death to Chinese citizens, the maritime administration shall participate in the investigation in accordance with the provisions of international treaties concluded or joined by the People’s Republic of China.
For the purpose of recruiting passengers, the waterway passenger transportation business operator shall publish information that is true and accurate, and shall not engage in false advertising or mislead passengers. The business operator shall keep confidential the personal information of passengers that it knows in the course of its business activities.
Any unit and individual shall have the obligation to protect the water environment and the right to report the pollution and damage to the water environment.
During the extension period, the lessee shall pay rent according to the rent rate stipulated in the contract; if the market rent rate is higher than the rent rate stipulated in the contract, the lessee shall pay rent according to the market rent rate.
If the parties are not satisfied with the specific administrative acts of the ship registration authority, they may apply for a review or initiate an administrative lawsuit in accordance with the relevant provisions of the laws and administrative regulations of the state.
The certificate of civil liability insurance for oil pollution damage of the vessel shall not be forged or altered, and shall be carried on board the vessel for inspection by the maritime administration.
In violation of this regulation, if a container of dangerous goods that does not meet the Technical Requirements for Container Security of Containerized Dangerous Goods by Sea is signed with a Container Security Certificate, the maritime administration shall order the rectification, and the unit that employs the container inspection personnel on the spot shall be fined RMB 1,000 to RMB 30,000.
The construction unit shall apply for the acceptance of the environmental protection facilities to the ocean administrative department that originally approved the environmental impact report of the marine engineering project 30 working days before the marine engineering is put into operation.
When applying for the nationality of the vessel, the owner of the vessel purchased from abroad with foreign nationality shall also provide the certificate of cancellation of the original nationality issued by the ship registration authority of the original port of registry or the certificate of cancellation of the original nationality at the time of re-registration.
The terms in the bill of lading that provide for delivery of the goods to the named person, or according to the instructions of the order party, or to the holder of the bill of lading, constitute the carrier's undertaking to deliver the goods.
Foreign vessels temporarily engaged in water transport shall comply with the relevant provisions of water transport management and shall conduct transportation within the scope and period approved.
Evidence of claims, including judgments, awards, conciliation agreements, arbitration awards and notarial claims, which are legally effective to prove the claims, as well as other evidence materials to prove the maritime claim.
The implementation of the measures to regulate the transportation capacity by suspending the issuance of new transportation capacity licenses shall be in accordance with the principles of openness, fairness and impartiality, and shall be announced to the public 60 days before the implementation, including the reasons for the measures, the scope, duration and other relevant matters.
If the certificate of ship ownership registration, the certificate of nationality of the ship and the certificate of cancellation of registration are lost or destroyed, the certificate holder shall provide a written explanation and relevant supporting documents to the ship registration authority of the port of registry and apply for a new one.
A person who enjoys the limitation of liability provided in this chapter may counterclaim against the claimant for the same accident, and the amount of the claim of both parties shall be offset against each other, and the compensation limit provided in this chapter shall only apply to the difference between the two claim amounts.
Maritime administration shall publish the list of dispatching agencies of seafarers and the general information of the agencies regularly to the public, and shall perform the corresponding duties and legal obligations, safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of dispatched seafarers, and be honest and trustworthy.
Other provisions of this regulation that are violated shall be punished in accordance with the laws and regulations such as the Port Law, the Safety Production Law, and the Regulations on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals.
From the date of acceptance of the application for ship registration, the ship registration authority shall record the registration matter in the ship registration book and issue the corresponding certificate within 7 working days, or make a decision not to register.
In case of a ship fire or a shipwreck, the location of the accident and the tonnage, draft, cargo, damage and the need for assistance of the ship shall be reported to the Port Supervision immediately.
In violation of the provision of Article 49, paragraph 2 of the Inland Navigation Safety Management Regulations, ships and crew members at the scene of danger and nearby shall not obey the unified dispatch and command of the maritime administration, and in accordance with the provision of Article 78 of the Inland Navigation Safety Management Regulations, the ships, floating facilities or responsible personnel shall be warned, and the responsible crew members shall be detained for 3 to 6 months or have their certificates of competence or other certificates of competence revoked.
The inspected units and relevant personnel shall accept the supervision and inspection conducted by the port administrative management department in accordance with the law, and shall truthfully provide relevant information and materials, and shall not refuse the inspection or conceal, falsify or provide false information and materials.
The ship oil pollution liability insurer or financial guarantor means the insurer or financial guarantor of the ship's oil pollution liability in the maritime accident which leaks oil or directly threatens oil pollution.
During the bareboat charter period, the charterer shall sub-charter the ship to others and apply for the registration of the sub-charter of the bareboat charter, and shall submit the certificate of the lessor’s consent to sub-charter.
The ship owner, interested party, and relevant state organs may lawfully access and copy the ship registration book or ship registration file.
The right of claim provided for in Article 169, paragraph 3 of this Law shall be subject to a limitation period of one year from the date on which the party jointly and severally liable for the damages was paid.
The ship management business operator shall be responsible for the ship's sea affairs, machinery affairs and safety and pollution prevention management in accordance with the relevant provisions of the state and the ship management agreement.
In the process of mining, selection, transportation, storage, smelting and tailings treatment of coastal mines, measures shall be taken to prevent pollution and damage to the marine environment according to relevant regulations.
The ship inspection agency may issue the inspection certificate or technical document for the Chinese-flagged ship or floating facility that has passed the inspection and has obtained the legal inspection certificate after the inspection has met the relevant inspection technical standards.
The direct responsible person in charge and other directly responsible persons among the crew shall be punished with a penalty of suspension of the relevant certificate or other relevant documents for one to three months.
The ships of financing lease may be selected by the lessee and lessor as close as possible to their residence or main place of business according to their agreement.
The professional conclusions made by enterprises on the certification and re-certification of high-level certified enterprises entrusted to social intermediary organizations can be used as a reference for customs certification and re-certification.
After receiving the application materials for the use of the port berth, the provincial port administrative management department shall organize the expert review and submit the preliminary review opinion together with the application materials to the Ministry of Transport after seeking the opinion of the provincial development and reform department.
If a ship leaks oil and pollutes other ships, fishing gear, fishing facilities, etc., the person who suffered damages may request compensation from the oil pollution liable person for the reasonable expenses paid for cleaning and repairing the polluted property. The people’s court shall support this request.
It is proved that the oil pollution damage was caused by the intentional or reckless act or omission of the ship owner, and the ship owner claimed to limit the liability, which is not supported by the people’s court.
If a ship is mortgaged before or during the bareboat charter, the law of the country where the original ship is registered shall apply.
Any unit or individual that refuses to accept the investigation of the investigating organ or its staff in accordance with law, or conceals or falsifies relevant information and materials shall be ordered to make corrections by the Ministry of Transport of the State Council or the Ministry of Transport of the local people’s government authorized by it, and shall be fined not less than RMB 20,000 and not more than RMB 100,000; in serious cases, a fine of not less than RMB 20,000 and not more than RMB 100,000 shall be imposed.
The Ministry of Transport and the waterway transport administration department shall examine the application for waterway transport operation in accordance with the relevant provisions of the State on the operation management of waterway transport and this Regulation, and issue the certificate of vessel operation or the certificate of international vessel registration to the qualified applicants.
The law of the place where the court that accepts the case applies to the compensation for damages caused by collision of ships on the high seas.
The legal effect of the exercise of the priority of the ship, which has been applied for arrest before the commencement of the bankruptcy proceedings and has been released on the basis of the bankruptcy proceedings, shall not be affected.
If the insurance compensation obtained by the insured person cannot compensate for all the losses caused by the third party, the insurer and the insured person may request compensation from the third party as joint plaintiffs.
If a ship causes pollution and fails to report it as required or fails to submit the Pollution Accident Report of Ships as required, the maritime administration shall impose a fine of RMB 20,000 to RMB 30,000 on the ship.
When a vessel is lost, dismantled, sold abroad or converted into a military, fishing or sports vessel, the vessel identification number shall be sealed and no longer be assigned to any other vessel.
The value of the goods jointly suffered from sea damage shall be apportioned according to the value of the goods at the time of loading, plus the insurance premium and freight, minus the amount of loss not belonging to the joint sea damage and the freight for which the carrier shall bear the risk.
Vessels engaged in water transportation operation exceeding the scope of operation approved by the Shipping Business Transportation Certificate or illegally modifying passenger ships, dangerous goods ships to increase the number of passengers or cargo capacity or change the type of transportation of bulk liquid dangerous goods as approved by the Shipping Business Transportation Certificate shall be punished according to the provisions of Article 34 (1) of the Regulations on the Administration of Inland Water Transportation.
To apply for ship registration, the applicant shall fill in the registration application and submit the legal identity certification and other relevant application materials to the ship registration authority.
When ships carry out welding and other projects in ports, the surrounding environment should be cleaned up in advance, strict preventive measures should be taken, firefighting equipment should be equipped, and inspections should be carried out before and after the projects.
The insured item is presumed to be totally lost, and the insured person shall entrust the insured item to the insurer upon request of the insurer to compensate for the total loss.
The shipping tools are not owned by the carrier or provided by the carrier, and the shipping tools themselves shall be regarded as one or one unit.
During the mediation process, if the parties bring a lawsuit or apply for arbitration to the people's court, the mediation shall be terminated automatically, and the parties shall notify the maritime administration in a timely manner.
The oil tank and the adjacent parts must be completely emptied of oil, cleaned of residual oil, thoroughly ventilated, the flammable gases inside must be removed, and a certificate of compliance must be obtained before welding can be carried out.
Change of sailing period, sailing time and fare (except for change of sailing period and sailing time due to force majeure), and the water transport passenger ship service operator shall announce it to the public 15 days before the change.
The ship management business operator shall maintain the corresponding qualification conditions and engage in ship management business within the scope of business licensed by the Domestic Ship Management Business License.
If the contaminated property cannot be cleaned or repaired, or if the cost of cleaning or repair exceeds its value, the injured party requests compensation for the reasonable replacement cost from the oil pollution liable person, and the people's court shall support it, but shall make a reasonable deduction according to the ratio of the actual use years and the expected use years of the contaminated property.
Units authorized to dump waste shall dump in the designated area within the period and under the conditions specified in the permit.
In the ports and coastal waters of the People's Republic of China, ships are prohibited from releasing oil, oil-based mixtures, and other harmful pollutants and waste materials at will.
If a dangerous goods port construction project engages in any of the following behaviors, the port administrative management department shall order it to stop construction or suspend production and rectify the situation within a specified period, and a fine of RMB 100,000 to RMB 500,000 shall be imposed; and the direct responsible person in charge and other directly responsible personnel shall be fined RMB 20,000 to RMB 50,000.
The waterway transport administration department shall establish a social supervision mechanism for the illegal business operations of the waterway transport auxiliary industry, and publish the complaint and report telephone, email, etc., to handle the complaint and report information in a timely manner.
According to the rules of foreseeable damage and mitigation of damages stipulated in Article 584 of the Civil Code of the People’s Republic of China and Article 591 of the Civil Code of the People’s Republic of China, the carrier shall take measures to reduce the loss caused to it by the excessive use of the container in a timely manner, so the compensation for the excessive use of the container shall be within reasonable limits.
After receiving the application for auctioning the ship, the Maritime Court shall conduct an examination and make a decision to allow or not to allow the auctioning of the ship.
The validity period of the port berth use certificate shall not exceed 50 years, and if the period has expired, the port berth user shall apply to the original approval authority three months before the expiration.
When the corresponding qualification is obtained, the cargo or roll-on/roll-off passenger ship shall not carry passengers, except for the accompanying personnel and the driver of the roll-on/roll-off vehicle in accordance with the relevant provisions.
If the carrier claims exemption and proves that the shortage of goods after unloading is reasonable loss, reasonable tolerance of measurement, and relevant industry standards or practices, the people's court shall, in principle, support it unless there is evidence proving that the carrier has no fault that cannot be exempted from the shortage of goods.
The crew members claimed compensation for labor injury from the ship owner, and the ship owner could not prove the crew members’ fault, so the people’s court should support the crew members’ claim for compensation for labor injury.
After reasonable calculation, the date of completion of the final voyage is approximately the same as the contractual return date, but may exceed the contractual return date, and the lessee has the right to use the ship beyond the contractual return date to complete the voyage.
The relevant maritime disputes are accepted by different maritime courts, and the person responsible for applying for the establishment of the maritime liability limitation fund shall submit the application to the first-filed maritime court according to the agreement on the jurisdiction of the lawsuit.
The Ship Auction Committee shall be composed of three or five persons including the court executive and the auctioneer and surveyor appointed by the Maritime Court.
Oil pollution caused by the loading of persistent oil on an oil tanker occurs outside the territory and jurisdiction of the People's Republic of China, and causes oil pollution or threatens oil pollution in the territory and jurisdiction of the People's Republic of China; the parties shall bring a lawsuit or apply for the establishment of an oil pollution compensation liability reserve fund for the damage caused by the oil pollution accident; and the maritime court shall have jurisdiction over the oil pollution accident according to the location of the result of the oil pollution or the location of the adoption of the preventive measures against oil pollution.
The relevant departments that exercise the marine supervision and administration according to the law shall cooperate closely and support each other when enforcing the law at sea, and jointly safeguard the national sovereignty over the sea and the legitimate rights and interests of the right-holders of the sea.
The waterway transport administration department shall keep confidential the business secrets and personal information of the inspected units known during the supervision and inspection of the waterway transport market in accordance with law.
If there are more than two mortgages set up on the same vessel, the vessel registration authority shall register them in the order of the dates of the mortgage registration applications, and shall record the registration date in the vessel registration book.
The carrier or its servants or agents shall be liable for loss of or damage to any luggage other than the passenger's accompanied luggage, unless they prove that the loss or damage was not caused by the carrier's fault.
In the case where the damaged party claims that the shipowner has no right to limit the liability when the oil tanker causes oil pollution caused by persistent oil, the dispute over whether the shipowner has the right to limit the liability may be tried and judged in advance by the Maritime Court.
The Ministry of Transport and the port administrative management departments at all levels shall, in accordance with the law, conduct supervision and inspection on the implementation of port planning, verify whether the port construction project has obtained the project approval and the port berth approval in accordance with the law, and publish the inspection results.
Except for the purchase or lease of vessels that have obtained the corresponding water transport operation qualification, the water transport operator shall apply to the department with the authorization for adding new passenger ship and dangerous goods ship transport capacity to the department of water transport administration of the prefecture-level people’s government where it is located.
Enterprises shall make statements and appeals against the decision of the customs to identify them as untrustworthy enterprises or to list them as serious untrustworthy parties within 5 working days from the date of receiving the written notification.
Customs shall not grant credit repair for items that are explicitly specified as non-repairable by laws, administrative regulations, and policy documents of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council.
In case of transfer of ownership of the vessel, loss and disappearance of the vessel, the registration of ownership of the vessel shall be cancelled in accordance with Articles 39 and 40 of the Regulations on the Registration of Vessels of the People’s Republic of China.
The name, fixed office place and contact information, legal representative, scope of business and other matters of the operator of ship agency, passenger water transport agency and cargo water transport agency shall be changed or terminated, and the change registration shall be handled within 15 working days from the date of change or termination of business.
In case of loss or damage of goods involved in the contract for the carriage of goods by sea, the holder of the bill of lading who chooses to claim compensation only from the actual carrier shall apply the provisions of the Maritime Commercial Law regarding the actual carrier as a priority.
If the lessor violates the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the lessee has the right to terminate the contract. If the lessor notifies the lessee of the delay of the ship and the expected date of arrival at the delivery port, the lessee shall notify the lessor of the decision to terminate the contract or continue to rent the ship within 48 hours from the date of receiving the notification.
Vessels shall keep the ship pollution cleaning agreement signed and available on board and present it to the maritime administration when handling port entry and exit procedures or operation applications.
When ships need to dump garbage and other waste in the port, they should show the signal required by the port to hire garbage trucks (vehicles).
The crew shall operate and manage the vessel in accordance with the relevant regulations and rules on navigation, watchkeeping and operation, and the instructions of the master, and shall keep watch to ensure safety, and shall not leave their posts.
After the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund, the maritime claimant may apply for the preservation of the property of the liable person based on the maritime compensation claim that the liable person cannot invoke the defense of the limitation of maritime compensation liability in accordance with law.
After the announcement of the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund by the Maritime Court, the creditors shall apply for registration of their claims related to maritime accidents that occurred in a specific case during the announcement period.
The carrier and the actual carrier shall be jointly and severally liable within the limit of liability.
The ship carrying solid bulk cargo shall comply with the relevant safety technical specifications on bulk, segregation and transportation, and meet the requirements of the corresponding certificate of fitness or certificate of conformity.
The ocean administration departments of the people's government at the county level and above are responsible for the supervision and inspection of marine engineering pollution damage to the marine environment, and for the handling of violations of laws and regulations on marine pollution prevention and control.
Customs, in accordance with the relevant requirements of the construction of social credit system, implements joint incentives for honesty and joint punishment for dishonesty with relevant departments of the state, and promotes information exchange, mutual recognition of supervision, and mutual assistance in law enforcement.
The entrant and the entrusted party shall report the detailed information of both parties and their vessels and the ship management agreement to the directly affiliated maritime administration institution of the Ministry of Transport or the maritime administration institution affiliated to the provincial transport administration department of the entrusted party’s location and the port of registry.
In the event of a ship pollution accident, if the ship or the relevant operating unit delays or omits to report the accident, the shipping management agency shall impose a fine of RMB 50,000 to 250,000 on the ship or the relevant operating unit.
If a vessel illegally hoists the national flag of the People's Republic of China and sails, the relevant authorities shall stop it and impose a fine.
Foreigners and foreign vessels shall be subject to supervision, inspection and management of the Fishery and Port Supervision and Administration Institution of the People’s Republic of China when they engage in fishery production, biological resources survey and enter the fishing ports under the jurisdiction of the People’s Republic of China.
If the annual inspection of the dispatching agency of seafarers is not qualified, the directly underneath maritime administration department shall order it to make corrections within a specified time limit and publicize it in time to the society, and urge the dispatching agency of seafarers to continue to bear the management responsibility for the seafarers dispatched.
The local people’s government shall approve the use of the sea, and the local people’s government shall register the use of the sea in a register and issue the certificate of the right to use the sea to the applicant of the use of the sea. The applicant of the use of the sea shall obtain the right to use the sea from the date of receiving the certificate of the right to use the sea.
In violation of Article 44 of the Regulations on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals, if any of the following circumstances exist, the maritime management institution shall order the rectification in accordance with Article 86 of the Regulations on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals, and a fine of RMB 50,000 to RMB 100,000 shall be imposed.
The term “ship registration” referred to in this Regulation means the act of registration of the ownership of ships, the nationality of ships, the mortgage of ships, bareboat charter, ship funnel mark and company flag by the ship registration authority in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation of Ship Registration of the People’s Republic of China.
The captain shall inspect the crew, the ship and the cargo before the ship sets sail and confirm that they are suitable for sailing, and shall obtain meteorological and oceanographic information as well as navigation notices, navigation warnings and other warning information issued by the maritime administration, and implement corresponding emergency measures, and shall not sail recklessly.
Vessels that cause pollution to the marine environment shall pay the relevant fees or provide the corresponding financial guarantees for the emergency measures taken by the maritime administration to reduce pollution damage, such as cleaning, salvage, towing, pilotage, and so on, before sailing.
In order to strengthen the safety management of dangerous goods in ports, prevent and reduce accidents of dangerous goods, safeguard the safety of people’s lives and property, and protect the environment, this Regulation is formulated in accordance with the relevant laws and administrative regulations, such as the Port Law, the Law on Safety Production, and the Regulations on the Safety Management of Dangerous Chemicals.
One year before the expiration of the nationality certificate of the vessel, the vessel owner shall carry the nationality certificate of the vessel and the valid ship technology certificate to the vessel registration authority of the home port to handle the renewal of the certificate.
The Ministry of Transport implements the operation license for inter-provincial transportation of dangerous goods by ship, inter-provincial transportation of passenger ships along the coast, and inter-provincial transportation of passenger ships by water on the main lines of the Yangtze River and West River, with a water transportation distance of more than 60 kilometers.
The waterway transport operator shall maintain the corresponding qualification conditions and engage in waterway transport business activities within the scope of business licensed by the Inland Waterway Transport Business License.
If the sea water farmers do not adopt scientific breeding methods as required, and pollute the marine environment or seriously affect the marine scenery, the county-level people's government departments of ocean administration shall order them to make corrections within a specified time.
The ocean engineering discharge fee is fully included in the fiscal budget, and the “two-line” management is implemented, and all of it is used for the prevention and control of ocean environmental pollution.
Maritime administration shall establish and perfect the supervision and inspection system for emergency prevention and treatment of ship pollution and disposal, conduct supervision and inspection on the ship pollution prevention and treatment ability of ships and relevant operating units, and record the supervision and inspection results.
Vessels and ports and terminals engaged in the handling of bulk liquefied gas shall establish a pre-operation consultation system and reach a written agreement on the handling of goods, loading and unloading, emergency and other matters.
If the applicant obtains the vessel identification number by deception or other improper means, the maritime administration shall report to the China Marine Administration to revoke the vessel identification number and impose a fine of RMB 5,000 to RMB 30,000.
If the dangerous goods port operator fails to take measures to eliminate the hidden dangers of accidents, the port administrative management department shall order it to eliminate them immediately or within a specified time limit, and a fine of not more than RMB 50,000 shall be imposed.
If the corresponding port operation license is not obtained in accordance with law, or if it engages in the operation of dangerous goods port beyond the scope of the license, the port administrative management department of the location shall order it to stop the illegal operation and confiscate the illegal income.
If two or more dangerous goods port operators in the same port area engage in dangerous goods port operations that may endanger the production safety of each other without signing a safety production management agreement or designating a dedicated safety management person to conduct safety inspection and coordination, the local port administrative management department shall order them to make corrections within a specified time limit, and impose a fine of not more than RMB 10,000; and the direct responsible managers and other directly responsible personnel shall be fined not more than RMB 3,000.
When transporting goods, ships shall be safely loaded, unloaded, stowed, segregated, secured and managed in accordance with the relevant laws, administrative regulations, rules and compulsory standards and technical specifications.
Vessel inspection agencies shall not issue statutory certificates to vessels or water facilities registered in or to be registered in the People’s Republic of China that have not been granted a vessel identification number by a maritime administration.
The infringer who breeds in the harbor area or waterway without authorization or who fails to take safety measures and is responsible for the occurrence of breeding damage may reduce or exempt the infringer's liability for compensation.
Where the insurer exercises the right of subrogation, the insured shall not sue the third party who caused the insurance accident, and the insurer shall sue the third party on its own behalf.
The master or the owner of a ship in distress is entitled to conclude a contract of salvage on behalf of the owners of the property on board the ship.
In case of possible loss or difficulty in obtaining evidence, the accident investigation agency may, in accordance with the law, preliminarily record, preserve and keep the corresponding certificates, documents and materials.
The owner or operator of the old transport vessel shall apply for the special periodic inspection to the vessel inspection agency recognized by the maritime management institution within half a year before and after the age of the special periodic inspection of the vessel specified in the appendix of this regulation, and obtain the corresponding vessel inspection certificate, and report to the issuing agency of the vessel operation certificate or the international ship registration certificate.
Maritime administration shall timely notify the water transport management department of the prefecture-level people’s government at the location of the operator of the waterway transport vessel of the situation of the waterway transport vessel accident and the conclusion in writing.
The waterway transport auxiliary business operator shall use the prescribed ticket and transport document that conforms to the relevant laws and regulations and the provisions of the Ministry of Transport.
If the port operator introduces dangerous goods among the ordinary goods to be transported or falsely or conceals the dangerous goods as ordinary goods to be transported, the administrative management department of the port where it is located shall order it to make corrections, and a fine of RMB 100,000 to 200,000 shall be imposed, and the illegal gains shall be confiscated.
If the insured item suffers a loss within the scope of insurance liability caused by a third party, the right of the insured person to claim compensation from the third party shall be transferred to the insurer from the date of payment of compensation by the insurer.
People’s courts, people’s procuratorates, public security organs, national security organs and national supervisory organs may, when handling cases, request the issuing agency of the seafarer’s certificate to declare the seafarer’s certificate of the parties to the case invalid.
If the conditions are met, a Port Operating Licence shall be issued and a Port Dangerous Goods Operations Attachment shall be issued for each specific dangerous goods operation site (see the attachment).
The investigation and handling of maritime traffic accidents that occur in the waters of fishing ports and fishing vessels in coastal waters, as well as maritime traffic accidents between military vessels, shall be governed by the relevant laws and administrative regulations of the state.
When ships discover or retrieve sunken or floating objects, they shall report or deliver them to the port supervision and inspection department, which shall give appropriate rewards.
If the number or type of dangerous goods in the operation is increased, and the scope of business is changed, in addition to meeting the requirements of relevant departments in environmental protection, fire protection, occupational health and safety, etc., the applicant shall reapply for the Port Operation License and the Attachment to the Port Operation License for Dangerous Goods Operation in accordance with Article 26 of these Regulations.
Maritime conservatory is a compulsory measure taken by the Maritime Court against the property of the requested party to ensure the implementation of the maritime claim according to the application of the maritime claimant.
The management of the safety of inland navigation of the naval military jurisdiction zone and military vessels, offshore facilities, the establishment and management of military buoys, and the management of the operation or underwater activities for military purposes shall be formulated separately by the Central Military Commission.
Any unit and individual shall not detain, collect, or make any annotation on the "On-site Supervision Report of Vessels", "Flag State Supervision Inspection Report", or "Port State Supervision Inspection Report" except for the maritime administration.
The ships and offshore facilities involved in a collision shall exchange their names, nationalities and ports of registration, and make every effort to rescue the personnel of the other party without seriously endangering their own safety. They shall not leave the waters of the accident site or escape.
Where the carrier has not issued the original bill of lading or has issued the original bill of lading but has taken back the original bill of lading and agreed to use electronic transfer of the goods, the carrier shall deliver the goods according to the provisions of the contract of carriage, the electronic instructions of the consignor or the instructions made by the consignor in other ways.
After obtaining the license, foreigners and foreign vessels shall engage in fishing activities in accordance with the matters specified in the license, such as the fishing vessel, fishing area, fishing time, fishing type, and fishing quantity, and shall fill in the fishing log, hoist the flag, and implement the reporting system in accordance with the relevant regulations of the Fishery Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the People’s Republic of China.
When the ship owner finds the nationality certificate of the ship lost or damaged abroad, he shall apply for the temporary nationality certificate of the ship to the embassy or consulate of the People’s Republic of China abroad, but he shall apply for the issuance of the nationality certificate of the ship to the ship registration authority of the home port in time after arriving at the first port of the country.
The waterway passenger transportation business operator shall sell tickets at the published fare, and shall not implement different fares for passengers under the same conditions, shall not change the published fare by means of collateral sales, cash refunds, mark-ups, and other unfair means to obtain unfair benefits, and shall not arrange passengers at a lower cabin or seat level than that indicated on the ticket.
The work has a dual purpose of rescuing distressed vessels, other properties and preventing and mitigating oil pollution damage, and the cost of preventive measures and rescue measures should be reasonably allocated according to the proportion of their importance.
The goods are sold before the damage is agreed upon, and the difference between the net amount of selling the goods and the value of the goods at the time of shipment plus insurance fee plus freight is calculated.
The acquisition, transfer and extinction of the ownership of a ship shall be registered with the ship registration authority; otherwise, it shall not be binding on third parties.
After the enforcement of the maritime compulsory order, if the maritime dispute concerned has not entered into litigation or arbitration procedure, the parties to the maritime request may bring an action to the maritime court that made the maritime compulsory order or other maritime court with jurisdiction, except for the parties who have made litigation jurisdiction agreement or arbitration agreement.
Except for the ship owner who intentionally causes oil pollution, the insurer or the guarantor of the ship pollution liability insurance shall not claim its defense against the ship owner to the injured party, and the people's court shall not support it.
If the insured person waives the right to claim compensation from a third party without the insurer’s consent, or if the insurer is unable to exercise the right to claim compensation due to the insured person’s fault, the insurer may deduct the insurance compensation accordingly.
The owner or agent of the goods of the persistent oil substance goods received by sea transportation in waters under the jurisdiction of the People's Republic of China shall pay the ship pollution compensation and damage fund.
The insured person submits an insurance application, and the insurer agrees to accept the application and agrees to the terms of the marine insurance contract, and the contract is formed.
The compensation for oil pollution damage caused by non-persistent fuel loaded on oil tankers and fuel loaded on non-oil tankers shall be subject to the provisions of the Maritime Commercial Law on the limitation of liability for maritime claims.
Before the commencement of insurance liability, the insured person may request to terminate the contract, but shall pay the handling fee to the insurer, and the insurer shall return the insurance premium.
The shipowner and its liability insurer or other person providing financial security shall apply to the Maritime Court for the right to obtain the limitation of liability as prescribed by law by establishing the Maritime Compensation Fund for Oil Pollution Damage.
Disputes over compensation for pollution damage caused by a ship pollution accident may be applied for mediation by the parties to the maritime administration, and the maritime administration may also initiate mediation.
If the interested party has objections to the applicant's application for the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund, it shall submit written objections to the Maritime Court within seven days from the date of receipt of the notice or within thirty days from the date of publication of the notice if no notice has been received.
If the pollution and damage to the marine environment is caused by the intentional or negligence of a third party, the third party shall bear the liability for compensation.
The insurer shall return the insurance premium to the insured from the date of termination of the contract to the date of expiration of the insurance period.
The waters where ships conduct the transit of dangerous goods and hazardous liquid pollutant goods shall be published by the maritime management agency with navigation warning or navigation notice.
If a vessel escapes after an accident at sea, the maritime management institution shall impose a fine of RMB 100,000 to RMB 500,000 on the owner, operator or manager of the vessel that violated the law, and impose a fine of RMB 5,000 to RMB 50,000 on the captain and responsible crew members and revoke their qualification certificates. The punished person shall be prohibited from applying for a new qualification certificate for life.
Ship shall apply for the certificate of safety for the transport of dangerous goods by sea in writing to the Port Supervision three days before the start of loading, stating the name, nature, packaging, quantity, loading location (and attach the loading diagram of the goods) of the dangerous goods, the ports of call and destination, and shall load the goods at the berth designated by the Port Supervision.
The ship management business operator shall accept the entrustment of ship management service and sign a written agreement with the entrustor, which shall specify the rights and obligations of the parties.
The people’s court shall reasonably determine the cost of preventive measures and the further losses or damages caused by the preventive measures, taking into account factors such as the scope of pollution, the degree of pollution, the volume of oil leakage, the reasonableness of the preventive measures, the cost of personnel involved in removing the oil slick and the cost of equipment used.
If the insured party is to be shipped or receive goods in batches over a certain period of time, the insured party may enter into a contract of scheduled insurance with the insurer.
If the lessee fails to pay the rent as stipulated in the contract, the lessor has the right to terminate the contract and claim compensation for the losses incurred thereby.
The injured party may bring a lawsuit directly to the ship oil pollution liability insurer or financial guarantor, and the ship oil pollution liability insurer or financial guarantor may claim the defense of the ship owner against the injured party.
If the port operator of dangerous goods refuses to implement it, and there is a real danger of a production safety accident, the port administrative management department may take measures such as notifying relevant units to stop supplying electricity, and may take compulsory measures to make the port operator of dangerous goods implement the decision, subject to ensuring safety and approved by the main responsible person of the department.
The contents of the notice include the name of the auctioned ship, the time and place of the auction, the reason and basis for the auction, and registration of claims.
After the provision of the guarantee, the person who provided the guarantee may apply to the Maritime Court for reduction, change or cancellation of the guarantee if there is a justifiable reason.
For the shipbreaking units that have not completed the treatment after the deadline, they may be ordered to suspend business rectification or be closed according to the harm caused.
When the maritime administration carries out supervision and inspection, the relevant units and individuals shall provide assistance and cooperation, and shall not refuse, hinder or obstruct.
The maritime administration accepting the application of vessel identification number shall review the materials and fill in the review comments within 3 working days and report to the China Maritime Safety Administration.
The emergency prevention and emergency response work for pollution of marine environment by ships and related operations shall follow the principles of unified leadership, comprehensive coordination, division of responsibilities, local management, and shared responsibility.
The port operator shall conduct its business activities in accordance with relevant laws and regulations, and the provisions of the relevant rules for port operation of the Ministry of Transport of the State Council. The port operator shall fulfill its obligations under the contract in accordance with the law and provide fair and good services to customers.
Foreign public vessels that sail, anchor or operate in the territorial waters of the People’s Republic of China in violation of laws and administrative regulations of the People’s Republic of China shall be dealt with in accordance with the relevant laws and administrative regulations.
After the initial review, if the management and operation of the ship comply with the requirements of the safety management system, the maritime administration shall issue a safety management certificate to the ship with a validity period of 5 years.
After accepting the application, the issuing authority shall verify the application materials and verify whether the applicant has any circumstances prohibiting departure according to the laws and administrative regulations through information sharing by the exit and entry administration department, and make a decision on whether to approve it within 7 working days.
Vessels shall navigate, anchor, and operate with valid certificates of nationality and other legal certificates, documents, and nautical books and materials published in accordance with relevant regulations, and hoist the flags of the relevant countries, regions, or organizations, and mark the name of the vessel, the identification number of the vessel, the port of registry, and the load line mark.
For ships registered in electronic media, off-site backup shall be made regularly and it shall have a unique and definite paper conversion form.
When a ship causes oil pollution and causes oil pollution damage or threatens to cause oil pollution damage in the territory of the People’s Republic of China and other waters under its jurisdiction, the people’s court shall apply this provision when handling the relevant ship oil pollution damage compensation disputes.
When purchasing a newly-built ship from abroad, the ship owner shall hold the certificate of ownership of the ship and the valid ship technology certificate, and apply for the temporary nationality certificate of the ship at the embassy or consulate of the People’s Republic of China abroad.
In violation of Article 28 of the Inland Navigation Safety Management Regulations, the operation in the navigable waters of inland rivers without filing the relevant documents as required shall be ordered to correct the violation and fined RMB 5,000 to RMB 50,000 according to Article 70 of the Inland Navigation Safety Management Regulations.
When ships enter or leave ports and anchor, they shall pay attention to the calls and signals of the port signal tower, and shall comply with the provisions of the Signal Regulations of Coastal Ports of the People's Republic of China when using visual signals.
When the baggage is returned, the passenger has jointly inspected or examined the baggage with the carrier, and no written notice is required.
The format of the certificate of compliance, the certificate of temporary compliance, the safety management certificate and the temporary safety management certificate shall be determined by the China Maritime Safety Administration and produced in unified form.
For violations of this regulation, the maritime administration shall impose administrative penalties in accordance with the relevant provisions of the maritime administrative penalties promulgated by the Ministry of Transport.
The bill of lading or the transportation contract contains “freight prepayment” or similar description, and the carrier claims a right of retention on the goods of the bill of lading holder on the ground that the freight has not been paid, which is not supported by the Maritime Law Article 87, except for the bill of lading holder and the consignor.
The priority of the ship refers to the right of the maritime claimant to make a maritime claim to the owner of the ship, bareboat charterer or ship operator in accordance with the provisions of Article 22 of this Law, and to be paid in priority for the ship that generates the maritime claim.
If the shortage of goods after unloading exceeds the relevant industry standards or practices, and the carrier cannot prove the losses caused by reasonable factors and unreasonable factors separately, the people's court shall support the claimant's request to hold the carrier liable for the entire compensation for the shortage of goods.
The parties filed a lawsuit and applied for the establishment of an oil pollution compensation liability restriction fund for the oil pollution damage caused by the oil tanker. The maritime court of the place where the oil pollution accident occurred shall have jurisdiction.
For the damage of oil pollution caused by the oil tanker, the interested party shall object to the limitation of liability claimed by the shipowner during the period of objection. After the judgment of the people’s court that the shipowner is entitled to the limitation of liability, the court shall release the preservation measures taken on the property of the shipowner or return the guarantee provided for the release of the preservation measures.
For oil pollution damage caused by the loading of persistent oil on an oil tanker, the ship owner or the ship oil pollution liability insurer or the financial guarantor shall establish an oil pollution damage liability limit fund.
The Maritime Court conducts maritime evidence preservation, and according to the specific circumstances, evidence may be sealed, or copies or duplicates may be extracted, or photographs or videos may be taken, and transcripts or investigation records may be made.
Maritime security includes security in the procedures of maritime request for preservation, maritime compulsory order, maritime preservation of evidence, etc. stipulated in this law.
If a waterway transport enterprise for dangerous goods violates this regulation and the crew members have not obtained the special training qualification certificate, the maritime administration department shall order the enterprise to make corrections. For dangerous chemicals, a fine of RMB 50,000 to RMB 100,000 shall be imposed; for dangerous goods other than dangerous chemicals, a fine of RMB 2,000 to RMB 20,000 shall be imposed.
The ship inspection personnel shall strictly carry out the inspection work in accordance with the requirements of relevant laws, regulations and inspection technical standards, and abide by professional ethics and professional conduct.
Before issuing the ship registration certificate, the ship registration authority shall terminate the registration procedure and return the application materials to the applicant if the applicant applies in writing to withdraw the registration application.
After the occurrence of an insurance accident to the goods, it is deemed as total loss if it is inevitable or if the cost of avoiding the total loss and the cost of continuing to transport the goods to the destination exceeds the insurance value.
If the person under disciplinary action is not satisfied with the disciplinary action, he or she may lodge a complaint with the China Port Administration Bureau within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notification.
The limit of the insurance or financial guarantee of civil liability for oil pollution damage of the ship owner shall not be lower than the limit of compensation for oil pollution damage stipulated in the Maritime Law of the People’s Republic of China and the relevant international treaties concluded or participated in by the People’s Republic of China.
The waterway transport administration departments shall establish a complete waterway transport market supervision and management mechanism and service quality evaluation system, establish a waterway transport operator integrity file to record the integrity information of waterway transport operators and practitioners, and regularly disclose the supervision and inspection results and the operator integrity file to the public.
The owner of the vessel shall, within 3 months from the date of loss of the vessel (including dismantling of the vessel and sinking of the vessel), present the certificate of ownership registration of the vessel, the certificate of nationality of the vessel and the relevant documents of loss of the vessel (including dismantling of the vessel and sinking of the vessel) and loss of the vessel to the vessel registration authority of the port of registry of the vessel to handle the cancellation registration.
The personnel who handle the declaration or report of dangerous goods in accordance with this regulation and the personnel who inspect the container at the container site shall be familiar with the relevant laws, technical specifications and declaration procedures.
If the bulk persistent oil substances carried by the ship cause pollution in the waters under the jurisdiction of the People’s Republic of China, the compensation limit shall be implemented according to the relevant international treaties concluded or participated in by the People’s Republic of China.
After the general creditor applies for the arrest of the ship in trust, the actual owner of the ship in trust claims the release of the arrest, and the people's court shall support it.
The validity period of the Marine Oil Pollution Civil Liability Insurance Certificate shall not exceed the term of the Marine Oil Pollution Civil Liability Insurance Contract or other financial guarantee certificate.
The review and issuance of the certificate shall meet the conditions stipulated in the Provisions on the Administration of Maritime Administration Permits of the People’s Republic of China, and shall be implemented in accordance with the Provisions on the Implementation of Administrative Permits and the Rules for Review and Issuance of Maritime Administration Permits and the Review and Issuance Procedures formulated by the Maritime Administration of the People’s Republic of China.
The port administrative department shall take the power supply suspension measures in accordance with the provisions in the preceding paragraph, and shall notify the dangerous goods port operator 24 hours in advance, except for emergency situations that endanger the safety of production.
The direct responsible person in charge and other directly responsible persons shall be punished by revoking the relevant certificate or other relevant documents of the crew.
Maritime administration and ship inspection agencies shall record the ship identification number in the relevant certificates such as ship registration certificate, minimum safe manning certificate and ship inspection certificate, as well as in the management archives.
The waterway transport operator shall not rent, lend or illegally transfer the waterway transport business license or the qualification of waterway transport in other forms.
The claim for compensation for oil pollution damage to the vessel may be made by the injured party to the owner of the vessel causing the oil pollution damage or directly to the insurer or other person providing financial security that assumes the liability for oil pollution damage of the vessel owner.
The limit of maritime compensation for the same ship in the same accident shall apply to the provisions of Article 210, paragraph 1 of the Maritime Commercial Law, whether it applies for the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Liability Limitation Fund or claims the limitation of maritime compensation liability, and the limit of maritime compensation liability for other ships engaged in the transportation of goods or coastal operations between ports of the People's Republic of China shall also apply to the provisions of this article.
Foreign vessels shall not engage in sea transportation and towing between ports of the People's Republic of China without the approval of the Ministry of Transport of the State Council.
If the water transport operator fails to provide the required marine and mechanical management personnel as required by this regulation, the county-level people’s government department of water transport administration shall order the operator to make corrections.
The lessor shall not create a mortgage on the vessel during the bareboat charter period without the prior written consent of the lessee.
Shipping companies shall apply for the initial review within two months before the expiration of the validity period of the temporary safety management certificate.
After an insurance accident, the insurer has the right to waive its right to the insured item and pay the insurance compensation stipulated in the contract in full to terminate its obligation to the insured item.
The right to claim for lost or damaged luggage shall be calculated from the day when the passenger disembarks or should have disembarked.
The carrier shall load the goods on deck according to the agreement with the consignor or in accordance with the shipping customs or the provisions of relevant laws and administrative regulations.
The unit that implements navigation channel maintenance shall be ordered by the navigation channel maintenance management department to make corrections within a specified time limit, and the corrections shall be followed up.
Any unit and individual shall not alter, intentionally damage, forge, falsify, rent, steal or use the "On-site Supervision Report of Vessels", "Flag State Supervision Inspection Report" and "Port State Supervision Inspection Report" arbitrarily.
After a maritime accident, the ship owner, charterer, operator, rescuer, and insurer may apply for the limitation of liability to the Maritime Court in accordance with the law.
The container inspection personnel shall conduct on-site inspection of the container loading activities of the dangerous goods carried by the vessel, and sign the Container Loading Certificate for the containers that meet the Technical Requirements for Container Loading of Dangerous Goods in Ocean Shipping (JT672-2006) after the container loading is completed.
The port administrative management department shall make a decision on whether to approve the operation within 24 hours after receiving the report, notify the reporter, and timely report relevant information to the maritime management institution.
When approving the above-mentioned port construction project water and underwater construction operation permit, the maritime administration shall review whether the applicant has handled the relevant procedures for port construction project approval and port shoreline approval in accordance with the law.
After approval, the ship registration agency of the ship’s home port shall cancel the bareboat registration in the ship registration book, retrieve the temporary nationality certificate of the ship, and issue a certificate of cancellation of bareboat registration and a certificate of cancellation of temporary nationality of the ship.
The age of foreign-flagged ships purchased or leased is the age of the ship from the date of completion of construction to the date of issuance of the Import License of Electromechanical Products or the Automatic Import License issued by the Ministry of Commerce or its authorized departments and agencies.
If the period of detention of the vessel expires and the person requested does not provide security, and if the vessel is not suitable for further detention, the maritime claimant may apply for auction of the vessel to the maritime court that detained the vessel after filing a lawsuit or applying for arbitration.
When the ship mortgage contract is changed, the mortgagee and the mortgagor shall carry the ship ownership registration certificate, the ship mortgage registration certificate and the proof document of the change of the ship mortgage contract to the ship registration authority of the home port to handle the change of registration.
When a ship is leased from abroad under bareboat charter, the bareboat charterer shall hold the bareboat charter contract and the certificate issued by the ship registration authority of the original country of registration that the original nationality has been stopped or canceled, or apply for the certificate of provisional nationality of the ship to the ship registration authority at the time of re-registration, and stop or cancel the original nationality immediately.
If the dispatching agency for seafarers fails to rectify within the prescribed time limit, its qualification as a dispatching agency for seafarers shall be revoked and the cancellation procedures for its qualification certificate shall be carried out in accordance with the law.
The staff of the environmental protection department who abuse their power, neglect their duty, or engage in corruption shall be given administrative punishment by their work unit or the supervising authority; and if they constitute a crime, they shall be held legally responsible.
The Maritime Claims Restricted Account shall be established in RMB and its amount shall be calculated according to the exchange rate of RMB against special drawing rights on the date when the court’s ruling on the establishment of the account takes effect.
The investigating agency for ship pollution accidents shall complete the investigation of ship pollution accidents based on the on-site inspection, examination, and investigation of the ship pollution accident, as well as the relevant technical identification, inspection, and testing reports.
When applying for a provisional ship nationality certificate for a second-hand ship purchased from abroad, the owner of the ship shall submit the certificate of ownership of the ship, the valid ship technical certificate and the certificate of consent to cancel the registration of the original registration authority to the ship registration authority at the place where the owner of the ship resides or has its main business.
Any enterprise, unit and individual investing, constructing and operating ports, wharves and related facilities shall be subject to supervision and inspection by the port administrative management departments at all levels in accordance with the law, and shall truthfully provide relevant information and relevant documents and materials.
The maritime administration shall review the application materials, and if they meet the requirements of this method, it shall issue the corresponding certificate of civil liability insurance for ship oil pollution damage to the ship within 7 working days from the date of acceptance.
The employer of the crew shall conclude a labor contract with the crew in accordance with the laws, regulations and relevant international treaties on labor and social security of seamen concluded or acceded to by the People’s Republic of China.
In the event of an oil pollution accident causing environmental damage, compensation for environmental damage shall be limited to the cost of reasonable measures taken or to be taken to restore the environment.
Vessels carrying dangerous goods shall comply with the safety technical standards for the bulk, isolation and transportation of dangerous goods, and shall meet the requirements of the corresponding certificate of fitness or certificate of conformity.
After the preservation of maritime evidence, if the maritime dispute has not entered into litigation or arbitration procedure, the parties to the maritime request may bring an action to the maritime court that has taken evidence preservation or other maritime court with jurisdiction, except for the parties that have reached a litigation jurisdiction agreement or arbitration agreement.
Before acceptance, the construction unit shall commission a qualified safety evaluation institution to evaluate the safety of the construction project and its safety facilities, and prepare a safety acceptance evaluation report according to the relevant provisions of the state.
When the joint owners of the ship establish a mortgage on the joint ship, they shall also provide an agreement of consent of more than 2/3 of the joint owners or the agreed proportion of the joint owners.
The injured party shall be supported by the people’s court in taking reasonable measures to avoid loss of income, and the cost of such measures shall be compensated, but within the limit of the amount of loss of income that could have been avoided.
After the maritime request for preservation of execution, if the maritime dispute in question has not entered into litigation or arbitration procedure, the parties to the maritime request may bring an action to the maritime court that has taken the maritime request for preservation of execution or other maritime court with jurisdiction, except for the parties that have reached a litigation jurisdiction agreement or arbitration agreement.
If the vessel identification number is not obtained in accordance with this regulation or the vessel identification number is not permanently marked or pasted on the hull of the vessel, the maritime administration department shall order the rectification and may impose a fine of RMB 3,000 to RMB 30,000.
Vessels carrying dangerous liquid pollutant goods in bulk and other vessels of 10,000 tons and above shall sign a pollution cleaning operation agreement with the pollution cleaning operation unit that meets the relevant technical specifications of the country before operation or before entering or leaving the port, and clarify the rights and obligations of both parties in pollution cleaning after a pollution accident occurs.
The departments of transportation and transportation (ports) at all levels shall strengthen the supervision and management of the administrative departments of ports in implementing the Law of the People’s Republic of China on Ports and this provision, and effectively implement the various systems stipulated by law, and promptly correct illegal acts in administrative law enforcement.
The State Council, Ministry of Transport, may take necessary measures to prevent and stop foreign ships from non-harmless passage in the territorial waters in order to safeguard the safety of maritime traffic and protect the marine environment, in conjunction with relevant departments.
After the initial review, the maritime administration shall issue a certificate of compliance valid for five years to shipping companies that meet the requirements of the safety management system.
The material, shape, specification, method and packaging mark should conform to the requirements of relevant international treaties, national standards and relevant provisions that China has joined and come into force.
When the situation of joint ownership of the vessel changes, the owner of the vessel shall present the certificate of ownership registration of the vessel and the relevant documents proving the change of the situation of joint ownership of the vessel to the vessel registration authority of the home port to handle the relevant registration of the change.
If the maritime administration finds that a ship carrying solid bulk cargo has safety hazards, it shall order the ship to eliminate the hazards immediately or within a specified period. If the hazards are not eliminated immediately or if they are eliminated after the deadline, the maritime administration shall take measures such as prohibiting the ship from entering or leaving the port or ordering the ship to stop sailing, change course or stop operation.
The owner of the vessel shall apply for the cancellation of the ship funnel mark and the company flag to the ship registration authority of the home port of the vessel and return the original ship funnel mark and company flag registration certificate.
The interested party objected to the maritime request for preservation, and the Maritime Court, after examination, found the reasons to be valid, and the preservation of its property should be lifted.
The technical condition of old transport ships may affect the safety of navigation, and the maritime administration shall require the ship owner or operator to apply for temporary inspection to the ship inspection agency.
The structure, equipment and instruments of foreign ships to prevent pollution shall comply with the relevant international conventions concluded or acceded to by the People’s Republic of China, and shall be inspected by the flag state government or the inspection agency recognized by the flag state and shall be kept in good technical condition.
After the ship is auctioned in accordance with law, the new owner of the ship may apply to the original ship registration authority for the cancellation of the registration of ownership by presenting the certificate of transfer of ownership, and the original ship registration certificate shall be returned.
If the applicant for a maritime claim makes a mistake in applying for the preservation of the maritime claim, it shall compensate the respondent or interested party for the loss suffered thereby.
The right of the rescuer to receive the rescue fund shall apply to the rescue between vessels owned by the same shipowner.
In the process of fulfilling the contract for the transportation of goods by sea, if the carrier causes the loss or damage of the goods, the right holder of the goods on board shall not have the priority of the ship in the claim for property compensation.
Only lease foreign-flagged vessels, and the ship leasing unit shall choose the nearest ship registration port according to its place of residence or main business premises, but shall not choose two or more ship registration ports.
Customs shall also notify the enterprise of the punitive measures, conditions for removal, procedures for removal and remedies for being listed as a seriously untrustworthy party in accordance with Article 23 of this Regulation.
The lessor shall deliver the vessel and the vessel certificate to the lessee at the port or place as agreed in the contract and at the time as agreed in the contract.
After the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund, the Maritime Claimant shall not apply for arrest of the vessel on the ground of exercising the priority of the vessel in respect of the Maritime Claim arising from the same maritime accident that is subject to the limitation of liability under Article 207 of the Maritime Law.
In the event of a ship pollution accident, if the ship or relevant operating unit conceals or falsifies the accident, the ship or relevant operating unit shall be fined by the maritime administration agency with a fine of RMB 250,000 to RMB 500,000.
When a maritime claimant brings an action in another maritime court, the maritime court accepting the case shall transfer the case to the maritime court that establishes the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Procedure Law, except for the case where the parties have reached a procedural jurisdiction agreement.
Old transport ships that have passed the special periodic inspection and continue to operate on water transportation, the ship owners or operators shall apply for the special periodic inspection once a year after the first special periodic inspection expires, and obtain the corresponding ship inspection certificate, and report to the issuing agency of the ship operation certificate or the international ship registration certificate.
If a foreigner or a foreign vessel violates this regulation and relevant laws and regulations of the People’s Republic of China, and the circumstances are serious, the China Fisheries Administration may cancel its fishing qualification in addition to imposing administrative penalties or referring the case to relevant departments for legal liability.
The Ministry of Transport shall review the port master plans reported by the provincial, autonomous regional and municipal people’s governments, and shall solicit opinions from relevant departments of the State Council and relevant military organs during the review process.
Within six months from the date when the maritime administration receives the report of a ship pollution accident or discovers a ship pollution accident, if the source of pollution cannot be identified or the polluting ship cannot be found, the accident investigation and handling institution in charge may terminate the accident investigation after being approved by the person in charge, and the reason for termination shall be noted in the ship pollution accident identification certificate.
Company means a shipping enterprise that assumes the responsibility and obligation of safety and anti-pollution management, including the ship owner, operator, manager and bareboat charterer.
If a vessel violates the provisions of this Regulation and its structure does not conform to the technical specifications for preventing pollution of the marine environment by vessels or the requirements of relevant international treaties, the maritime administration shall impose a fine of RMB 100,000 to 300,000.
After the maritime court grants the application, it shall publish an announcement through newspapers or other news media to urge the ship priority creditor to claim the ship priority during the announcement period.
The insurer shall issue the insurance policy or other insurance certificate to the insured in a timely manner, and the contract content agreed by both parties shall be stated in the insurance policy or other insurance certificate.
The port administrative department shall timely report the statistics information submitted by the port operator to the competent authorities according to the relevant provisions of the state, and keep the commercial secrets of the port operator confidential.
The ship owner, operator or manager who engages in the transportation of dangerous goods shall establish and implement the corresponding system or institution according to the requirements of the Ministry of Transport on the safety operation and pollution prevention management system of ships.
When the maritime administration of the place where the shipping company is located finds that the shipping company has safety hazards in safety and pollution prevention management, it shall order the shipping company to eliminate them immediately or within a specified time.
A towage contract for sea towing refers to a contract where the towing party tows the towed object by a towing vessel from one place to another by sea, and the towed party pays the towage fee.
"actual carrier" means a person who accepts the commission of the carrier to transport passengers or part of the passengers, including other persons who accept sub-commission to perform this transportation.
Supervisory inspectors shall make a written record of the time, place, content, problems found and handling of the supervisory inspection, and sign it with the person in charge of the supervised unit.
“Marine Notice” refers to the statement submitted by the shipowner to the maritime administration after the ship arrives at the port when the ship encounters bad weather or accidents that cause or may cause damage to the ship, cargo, environment, casualties or other accidents.
The buyer shall pay not less than twenty percent of the price of the vessel upon signing the auction confirmation of transaction, and the remaining price shall be paid within seven days from the date of transaction, unless otherwise agreed by the Auction Ship Committee and the buyer.
Customs may suspend the application of the management measures stipulated in Article 30 (5) of this method if the enterprise with senior certification has financial risks or obvious signs of transfer, concealment or other disposal of its taxable goods and other properties, or if there are other risks that cannot guarantee the payment of taxes in full.
In calculating the amount of compensation for loss of other baggage than one vehicle or one passenger, the agreed carrier's exemption shall be deducted.
Where the damage to the aquaculture facilities and aquatic products is caused by collision or contact with ships or environmental pollution in the sea and navigable waterways, the aggrieved party may request the infringer to compensate for the losses of the aquaculture facilities, losses of aquatic products, losses of reduced income during the recovery period, and reasonable expenses incurred for eliminating obstacles, eliminating hazards, and determining losses.
The port operators of dangerous goods shall establish complete safety management regulations for major sources of danger, formulate and implement a program for the safety management and monitoring of major sources of danger of dangerous goods, formulate emergency plans, inform relevant personnel of the emergency measures to be taken in emergency situations, and regularly test, evaluate and monitor major sources of danger.
The ship operator stipulated in Article 204 of the Maritime Code means the registered ship operator or the person who is entrusted by the ship owner to use and control the ship and should bear the responsibility of the ship, but not including the non-ship carrier operator.
In order to maintain the safety of ports and vessels, vessels in the port shall be moved or departed early or delayed according to the decision of port supervision, and vessels shall comply with the decision.
If the insurance accident is caused by a third party, the insurer may exercise the right of the insured party to claim compensation from the third party within the scope of the insurance compensation.
The Domestic Ship Management Business Operation License shall be issued through the National Waterway and Transport Administration Information System, and the administration of the license shall be gradually realized online.
If the ship security officer of a Chinese-flagged vessel is unable to perform his duties, the maritime administration shall issue a written certification document, designate other crew members to perform the duties of the ship security officer for a short period of time, and notify the maritime administration of the next port of call of the vessel.
The ship owner or operator shall apply for regular inspection of the old transport ships in operation to the ship inspection institution recognized by the maritime administration according to the relevant provisions of the state.
The accident investigation agency shall conduct the accident investigation in a timely, objective and impartial manner, examine the accident scene, inspect the relevant vessels, question the relevant personnel, collect evidence, identify the cause of the accident and determine the responsibility for the accident.
The ship registration port shall be selected by the ship owner according to the location of its residence or main business place, but not by two or more ship registration ports.
In the course of supervision and inspection, the maritime administration shall timely report or transfer the relevant departments for handling the violations of other laws and administrative regulations found on ships and offshore facilities.
Maritime administration shall, according to the need of maritime traffic safety management, issue navigation warning for urgent and dangerous situations and navigation announcement for other situations that affect maritime traffic safety.
If the pilotage institution is at fault for dispatching the pilot and causing the ship to suffer losses, the maritime administration shall impose a fine of RMB 30,000 to RMB 300,000 on the pilotage institution.
If the insurance institution engaged in marine oil pollution liability insurance refuses to pay compensation to the insured vessel after the performance period stipulated in the effective court judgment, arbitration award or arbitration mediation, it shall not be accepted by the maritime administration for three years from the year of discovery when applying for the certificate of marine oil pollution liability insurance.
In the annual review or renewal review, if the safety management system operation is found to be seriously inconsistent with the requirements, or if there are a large number of inconsistencies and they have seriously affected the validity of the safety management system operation, the maritime administration shall conduct a follow-up review six months after the corresponding review.
The reviewing department shall make written comments on the materials submitted for review if it considers that major revisions are required. The submitting unit shall make revisions according to the comments.
According to Article 75 of the Maritime Commercial Law, the carrier or the person who signs the bill of lading on its behalf shall make a remark on the bill of lading if there is no appropriate method to verify the information recorded on the bill of lading when the bill of lading is issued for the loaded ship.
Vessels, aircraft, platforms and other means of transportation at sea, which are abandoned due to force majeure, shall be reported to the relevant departments and the port supervision nearby by their owners, and shall be salvaged and cleared as soon as possible.
Foreign-flagged vessels and floating facilities with serious defects shall be subject to mandatory cancellation of classification; the newly established domestic classification societies shall not accept inspection until the defects have been rectified.
After a ship accident, it is deemed as total loss if it is considered inevitable or if the cost required to avoid total loss exceeds the insurance value.
The Ministry of Transport and the waterway transport administration department shall supervise and manage the auxiliary business operation activities and operation qualification of waterway transport in accordance with relevant laws, regulations and this provision.
A party to a maritime lien may object to a maritime lien, and if the maritime court, after examination, finds the objection to be well-founded, it shall rule to revoke the maritime lien.
Vessels shall respect the aids to navigation and the buoys, and if they damage the buoys, the port facilities or other facilities, they shall immediately report to the port supervision and bear the responsibility for restoring the original state or compensating the expenses for restoring the original state.
The time limit is suspended for the last six months of the time limit if the exercise of the right of request is prevented by force majeure or other obstacles.
When creditors file a claim for confirmation of rights, they shall make a written statement that the person responsible for the liability has no right to limit the liability according to Article 209 of the Maritime Commercial Law.
If the carrier claims exemption from liability under the "unknown clause" recorded in the bill of lading when the goods are damaged during transportation, it shall bear the burden of proof for the circumstances stipulated in Article 75 of the Maritime Commercial Law.
If the administrative department of ports abuses its planning authority and causes damage to the planning of ports, the directly responsible managers and other directly responsible personnel shall be given administrative punishment according to law.
After the delay, if the contract cannot be continued to be performed due to force majeure or other reasons not attributable to both parties, both parties may terminate the contract and shall not bear compensation liability to each other.
If the waterway transport operator refuses to accept the supervision and inspection of the administration in accordance with this provision or conceals relevant information or conceals or falsifies relevant information, the waterway transport administration department of the county-level people’s government where the operator is located shall order the operator to make corrections.
Ship operated by a branch of an enterprise established in accordance with law, which conducts business activities, may choose a ship registration port near the place where the branch is located.
Water transport operators who lease foreign-flagged vessels for temporary transportation shall submit an application, a transportation contract, the foreign-flagged vessel to be used and the vessel registration certificate, vessel inspection certificate and other relevant certificates and materials that can prove that they meet the conditions stipulated in these Regulations to the Ministry of Transport.
In violation of Article 45 of the Inland Waterway Traffic Safety Management Regulations and the Regulations on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals, the ship carried and transported hazardous goods that did not conform to the relevant laws, regulations, rules and national standards or did not take necessary safety and protection measures according to the characteristics of hazardous chemicals, and was ordered to correct it according to Article 86 of the Regulations on the Safety Management of Hazardous Chemicals, and a fine of RMB 50,000 to RMB 100,000 was imposed on the ship owner or operator.
Maritime administration personnel who abuse their power, engage in bribery, dereliction of duty, or serious negligence of duty shall be given administrative punishment by their work unit or supervisory authority; if they constitute a crime, they shall be held criminally liable according to law.
When a seafarer signs a labor contract with a shipping company or other relevant industry units in China, the seafarer dispatching agency shall obtain the consent of the seafarer’s employer before dispatching the seafarer.
The local people’s government at or above the county level shall organize the formulation of the water pollution prevention and control plan of its administrative region according to the river and lake basin water pollution prevention and control plan approved by law.
The staff of the transport administration department, maritime administration and other relevant departments who violate the provisions of this law and abuse their power, neglect their duty or engage in corruption shall be punished according to law.
The construction unit of the dangerous goods port construction project shall organize the implementation of the relevant contents of the approved safety facility design during the construction period, strengthen the monitoring and management of the construction quality, and establish the corresponding logbooks.
When the vessel is anchored in the port, the crew must be on duty to ensure the safety of the vessel; in case of emergency such as typhoon warning, all crew members must return to the vessel immediately to take preventive and emergency measures.
In the event of a ship pollution accident that occurs outside the jurisdictional waters of the People's Republic of China, the owner or operator of the ship shall immediately report the accident to the directly under the seaport administration organ of the place where the ship is registered, and submit the Ship Pollution Accident Report within 48 hours.
Vessels shall carry and load dangerous goods with the prescribed signals, comply with the provisions of the management of dangerous goods transportation, and take necessary safety measures, especially for incompatible goods, and it is forbidden to mix explosive goods with ignitable or flammable goods in the same compartment.
Before the contract is concluded, the insured shall inform the insurer of all important facts that the insured knows or should know in the normal course of business and that affect the insurer's determination of the premium or its decision whether to accept the risk.
Vessels sailing in ports and waters of the People's Republic of China shall not engage in activities that endanger the security and interests of the People's Republic of China, and shall abide by the relevant provisions on straits, waterways, shipping lanes and prohibited areas.
When a vessel is rented within the territory, the lessor and the lessee shall apply for the registration of the bareboat charter before the vessel is rented by presenting the certificate of vessel ownership registration, the certificate of vessel nationality and the original and copy of the bareboat charter contract to the vessel registration authority in the port of registry.
The parties to maritime disputes are all foreigners, stateless persons, foreign enterprises or organizations. If the parties agree in writing to accept the jurisdiction of the Maritime Court of the People’s Republic of China, the Maritime Court of the People’s Republic of China shall have jurisdiction over the dispute even if the place where the dispute is actually connected is not within the territory of the People’s Republic of China.
The port administrative management department shall establish and perfect the safety production credit management system, establish the safety production violation information database, record the safety production violation information of the dangerous goods port operators and their relevant practitioners truthfully, and input it into the transportation and related unified credit information sharing platform.
The captain and all crew members shall abide by laws, administrative regulations, relevant international conventions and local requirements for preventing and controlling marine pollution caused by ships during their duty, and take all possible preventive measures to prevent pollution of the marine environment caused by improper operation or accidents.
The waterway transport administration department shall establish a social supervision mechanism for waterway transport illegal operation, and publish the telephone, email, etc. for complaints and reports, and handle the complaints and reports in a timely manner.
If the maritime liability limitation fund is established as a security, the interest during the establishment of the fund shall be calculated according to the benchmark interest rate of one-year loan of financial institutions determined by the People’s Bank of China.
If the pollution removal capacity and service region of the ship pollution removal unit are changed, the change shall be publicized in a timely manner and reported to the maritime administration organ in the location of the service region.
Any unit or individual shall not collect fees from port operators by extortion or in violation of the law, and shall not interfere with the business autonomy of port operators in violation of the law.
For foreign vessels, the Chinese Maritime Administration shall report the situation to the flag state maritime administration and the International Maritime Organization in accordance with the provisions of Articles 48 and 49, and take administrative compulsory measures such as compulsory inspection, ordering the vessel to correct the defect immediately or within a specified period, restricting operation (including restricting activities within the port), ordering the vessel to head to a designated location, prohibiting entry into the port, detaining the vessel, and expelling it from the port.
After the decision to grant the applicant to establish the maritime liability limitation fund takes effect, the applicant shall establish the maritime liability limitation fund in the maritime court.
Chinese seafarers holding seafarers' certificates shall meet the requirements of the destination country or region on entry and exit documents and so on.
Radio transmitters, radiotelephone transmitters, rocket signals, flame signals, and signal guns may only be used in emergencies, and must be reported to the Port Supervisor after use.
In case of maritime traffic accidents or pollution accidents, ships and offshore facilities shall be required to rectify by maritime management agencies if they have not settled the taxes, fines and penalties prescribed by the state, and have not provided guarantees or fulfilled other legal obligations. The agencies may also prohibit them from leaving the port.
The captain or the ship owner shall fill in the prescribed form through the shipping agency company to apply for import approval procedures to the Port Supervision Administration one week before the scheduled arrival of the ship at the port, and report the expected arrival time, draft, and other conditions to the Port Supervision Administration through the shipping agency company 24 hours before the arrival of the ship at the port (or before leaving the previous port if the voyage is less than 24 hours).
The direct maritime administration agency shall report the list of dispatching agencies of seafarers to the Maritime Department of the Ministry of Transport within 15 days from the date of issuing the qualification certificate, and the Ministry of Transport shall timely inform the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Chinese embassies and consulates abroad.
Engage in illegal international maritime transportation operations in and out of Chinese ports and related auxiliary operations, and disrupt the order of the international maritime transportation market, shall be held criminally liable according to the provisions of the Criminal Law on the crime of illegal operation.
The rented vessel may be sublet, and the rights and obligations stipulated in the original rental contract shall not be affected.
In relation to the avoidance of collision of ships, matters not listed in this rule and other relevant provisions of the People’s Republic of China shall be handled in accordance with the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea implemented by the People’s Republic of China.
When a ship is transferred, the transferee may apply to the Maritime Court for a ship priority notice to urge the ship priority person to assert the right in a timely manner and eliminate the priority of the ship.
During the on-site supervision and inspection by the maritime administration, it was found that the old transport ships engaged in domestic transportation could not provide valid shipping operation certificates, and the maritime transport administration department of the municipal people's government at the place where the ship operators were located shall handle it in accordance with the law.
The consignor or the holder of the bill of lading shall provide initial evidence to prove that it is the lawful holder of the original bill of lading, the carrier did not deliver the goods according to the original bill of lading, and the loss suffered as a result.
If the injured party is unable to conduct normal production and operation due to the oil pollution of the vessel, the loss of income shall be calculated within the reasonable period required for property cleaning, repair or replacement.
If the review is in line with the credit repair conditions, the customs shall make a decision to grant credit repair within 20 days from the date of receiving the application for credit repair.
The legal rights and interests of port operators, port cargo handling operators, and operators engaged in ship port services, port facility equipment and machinery rental and maintenance are protected by law.
The marine traffic accident liability determination document can be used as evidence in maritime cases such as ship collision disputes, and the people's court will determine the credibility of the liability determination document through the evidence and cross-examination procedures.
When conducting supervision and inspection of crew members, maritime administration shall check the validity of the documents that crew members must carry and inspect the performance of crew members in their duties, and may conduct on-site assessment if necessary.
In the course of supervision and inspection, the port administrative department found that the violation of the procedure for obtaining approval and the construction of ports, wharves and other facilities in violation of the port planning shall be stopped in a timely manner and dealt with in accordance with the law, and the relevant departments shall be notified.
If the person who renders assistance conducts the rescue operation as prescribed in the preceding paragraph and achieves the effect of preventing or reducing environmental pollution damage, the special compensation that the shipowner shall pay to the rescuer as prescribed in the preceding paragraph may be increased separately, and the amount of the increase may reach thirty percent of the rescue cost.
Chinese seamen holding seaman's certificate shall present the seaman's certificate to the border inspection authority for entry and exit and complete the required procedures. After inspection and approval, they may enter and exit the country.
Any unit or individual that refuses to accept the supervision and inspection of the ocean administrative department, fails to report the facts truthfully or fails to provide relevant information as required by this Law shall be ordered to make corrections within a specified time limit, given a warning, and may be fined not more than RMB 20,000.
According to Articles 58 and 61 of the Maritime Commercial Law, the proceedings initiated for loss, damage or delay of delivery of goods involved in the contract of carriage of goods by sea shall be subject to the defenses of the carrier and the limitation of liability provisions for the carrier, the actual carrier, the agent or the employee of the carrier or the actual carrier.
Vessels sailing, anchoring and operating in inland waters shall not discharge pollutants into inland waters in violation of laws, administrative regulations, norms, standards and provisions of the Ministry of Transport.
The provincial, autonomous regional and municipal people's governments may establish local standards for items not stipulated in the national water environmental quality standards and report them to the State Environmental Protection Administration for record.
Other construction projects approved and authorized by the State Council or the National Development and Reform Commission within the overall planning area of the port and constructing port facilities shall seek the opinion of the Ministry of Transportation on the use of the port shoreline before the State Development and Reform Commission approves and authorizes the construction projects.
A ship co-owner shall establish a mortgage on the co-owned ship with the consent of co-owners holding more than two-thirds of the shares, unless otherwise agreed among the co-owners.
The special expenses of joint sea losses shall be calculated with handling fees, except for the wages of crew members, subsistence and fuel and materials consumed by the ship.
If the vessel is lost or missing, the rent shall be stopped from the date of loss or the date when the last news of the vessel is known, and the advance rent shall be refunded proportionally.
The safety management system has been audited, and the China State Administration of Navigation Safety and its designated navigation management institutions issue the corresponding safety and pollution prevention capability compliance certificate (hereinafter referred to as compliance certificate) or temporary compliance certificate to qualified shipping companies, and issue the corresponding safety management certificate or temporary safety management certificate to qualified vessels.
The period during which the carrier is responsible for the goods loaded in the container is from the time the goods are received at the port of loading to the time the goods are delivered at the port of discharge, and the goods are under the carrier's control during the entire period.
Maritime administration, ship inspection agency, radio administration and local transportation administration departments shall simplify the conditions for business processing, optimize the processing procedures, shorten the processing time, and establish a mechanism for sharing information, and exempt the applicant from submitting the materials that can be obtained through information sharing.
The maritime administration may conduct supervision and inspection, ask the parties concerned, inquire about the situation from the relevant organizations or individuals dispatching seafarers, examine and copy relevant materials, and keep confidential the business secrets or personal privacy of the organizations dispatching seafarers under investigation.
The carrier shall not recognize the evidence presented by a third party, including the consignee, in good faith, which is different from the status in the bill of lading.
Foreign vessels sailing in the ports and coastal waters of the People's Republic of China (hereinafter referred to as vessels) shall comply with this rule and all relevant laws, regulations and provisions of the People's Republic of China.
The crew members holding the Seafarer’s Identity Document of the People’s Republic of China shall enjoy the rights and facilitation of passage in accordance with the laws of the locality and the relevant international treaties as well as the provisions of the shipping or navigation agreements signed between the People’s Republic of China and the relevant countries in other countries and regions.
The insured person shall immediately notify the insurer when he knows that the insured goods have been shipped or arrived according to the contract of insurance by appointment.
In order to safeguard the sovereignty of the People's Republic of China, maintain order in ports and coastal waters, ensure the safety of navigation, and prevent pollution of waters, the following rules are hereby established.
The credit management of foreign enterprises such as foreign enterprises producing imported food, foreign enterprises producing, processing and storing imported animals and plants, and foreign enterprises producing imported food shall be separately regulated by the General Administration of Customs.
After completing the pollution acceptance operation, the pollution acceptance unit shall issue a pollution acceptance handling certificate to the vessel and hand over the pollution acceptance of the vessel to the relevant unit onshore for processing according to the regulations.
After approval of the use of the port berth or obtaining the certificate of use of the port berth, if the actual user of the berth changes due to the name change of the enterprise or the transfer of the controlling right, or if the purpose of use of the berth changes, the applicant shall report to the original approval authority for approval according to the procedures stipulated in this method.
Before making a decision on the determination of untrustworthy enterprises, the customs shall notify the enterprises in writing of the reasons, basis and the right to make statements and appeals in accordance with the law.
After the maritime court makes a ruling to preserve the ship, the maritime claimant may, with the consent of the claimant, adopt methods such as restricting the disposal or mortgage of the ship to allow the ship to continue operating.
The investigating agency of ship pollution accident shall investigate the ship pollution accident, examine the relevant ships, interrogate the relevant persons, collect evidence and identify the cause of the accident.
The seafarer’s certificate can be applied for directly to the issuing authority or entrusted to the seafarer dispatching agency, or applied for by the shipping company that operates international or special line vessels.
The dangerous goods port operators shall entrust the qualified safety evaluation institutions to conduct safety evaluation of the safety production conditions of their units every three years according to the relevant provisions of the state, and submit the safety evaluation report.
Criminal offenses that serve as the basis for determining the creditworthiness of an enterprise shall be determined based on the time when the relevant legal documents of the judicial authorities take effect.
Matters related to pilotage shall be handled in accordance with the Regulations on Pilotage Work of the Ministry of Transport of the People’s Republic of China.
When applying for a certificate of nationality of a vessel through international registration of vessels, an application for a certificate of compliance with the safety operation and pollution prevention management system of a shipping company, a certificate of pollution prevention of vessels, a certificate of minimum safety crew of vessels, and a certificate of vessel documents and documents may be filed at the same time.
Without legal approval, if you violate the planning of building ports, wharves and other facilities, the county-level people’s government or the port administrative department shall order you to make corrections within a specified time.
The Port Operation License shall specify the name and office address of the port operator of dangerous goods, the legal representative or person in charge, the scope of business authorized to engage in, the attached documents, the date of issuance, the validity period of the license, and the certificate number.
If the person responsible for the accident does not raise the defense of limitation of liability, the maritime court shall not apply the provisions of the Maritime Commercial Law on limitation of liability of maritime claims on its own initiative.
Before engaging in the operation of adding inhibitors or stabilizers to dangerous goods in the port, if the relevant parties such as the relevant dangerous goods port operators and the operation vessels have not been informed, the administrative management department of the port where the operation is conducted shall order the relevant parties to make corrections, and a fine of not more than RMB 30,000 shall be imposed on the relevant parties.
If the foreign investor or the foreign investment proportion of the foreign-invested enterprise with water transport operation license approved changes, it shall be reported to the original permit-issuing department for approval.
The establishment, transfer and cancellation of mortgage right and bareboat charter right of vessels shall be registered with the vessel registration authority.
The application is within the scope of the authority of the port administrative department, and the application materials are complete and in the prescribed form, or the applicant has submitted all the corrected application materials as required. The application for business operation permit shall be accepted.
The construction project approved to use the deep-water berth line shall apply for the berth line use certificate and the approval document of the construction project to the Ministry of Transportation within ten working days after obtaining the approval document of the construction project.
The parties and other persons concerned in the marine pollution accident shall provide original documents, physical evidence, audio-visual materials, and shall sign and confirm that they are not providing photocopies, reproductions, or other non-original materials.
The Port Administration Department shall require the port operators to provide statistical information according to the provisions of the Statistics Law of the People’s Republic of China and relevant administrative regulations, and the port operators shall provide the information truthfully.
The shipper shall also submit documents issued by relevant professional institutions indicating the dangerous characteristics of the goods not listed in the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code and the National Table of Dangerous Goods and the protective measures to be taken for such goods.
Before the newly-built ship is put into operation or a shipping company takes over the safety and pollution prevention management responsibility of a certain ship or the ship changes its nationality, the shipping company shall apply for temporary review of the ship, and if it is qualified after review by the maritime administration, it shall be issued a temporary safety management certificate with a validity period of six months.
The contract of domestic waterway freight transportation signed by a carrier who has not obtained the qualification of domestic waterway transportation operation is invalid, and the court will not support the carrier’s request to the consignor or the consignee to pay the penalty fee in accordance with the contract.
In violation of Article 14 of the Regulations on the Administration of Inland Navigation Safety, vessels and floating facilities that should be scrapped shall be ordered to stop navigation or operation and shall be confiscated in accordance with Article 63 of the Regulations on the Administration of Inland Navigation Safety.
The owner or operator of a Chinese vessel carrying dangerous chemicals by inland waterway shall purchase marine pollution liability insurance from a commercial insurance institution and mutual insurance institution established in accordance with law within the territory of our country.
Before leaving the port, the vessel shall conduct self-inspection on the safety technical condition and cargo loading condition of the vessel, fill in the "Pre-departure Safety Self-inspection Checklist" in the format prescribed by the State Administration of Maritime Affairs, and the vessel master shall sign and confirm it before departure.
The permanent mark on the hull of the vessel shall be in the style of Song Tie, and the height of the characters of the vessel identification number shall be 10 cm for vessels of 20 meters in length and above, and 5 cm for vessels of 20 meters in length and below.
Vessels carrying dangerous goods shall conduct the transshipment of dangerous goods in the waters of the port, and the port operators responsible for the transshipment shall apply for it to the port administrative management department in accordance with law.
For newly built ships or ships transferred from other registers to international registers, the ship inspection agency may issue a certificate of ship inspection upon application and provide a certificate of ship technical parameters as technical information for the ship registration agency to handle the ship registration.
The port operators, the port cargo handling operators and the operators of ship port services shall abide by the relevant national provisions on port operation prices and charges, and shall publish the items and standards of service charges at the place of operation, and disclose them through various channels, and use the port operation invoices prescribed by the state.
If the solid bulk cargo to be delivered by ship is not listed in the International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Code, the shipper shall submit the identification materials issued by the testing agency with the corresponding qualification (hereinafter referred to as the testing agency), which clearly states the classification, classification, danger, pollution hazard and ship transportation technical conditions of the goods, and then the goods can be delivered by ship.
The consignee and the bill of lading holder shall not bear the demurrage, detention charges and other charges related to loading at the port of loading, unless the bill of lading clearly states that the consignee and the bill of lading holder shall bear the above charges.
The penalty amount that serves as the basis for determining the enterprise's credit status includes the sum of the fines imposed by the customs and the amount of the confiscated illegal gains or the value of the confiscated goods.
Maritime administration shall establish and perfect the supervision and inspection system of safety and pollution prevention of shipping companies, and conduct supervision and inspection of safety and pollution prevention management activities of shipping companies.
If the oil pollution damage is caused by non-persistent fuel oil loaded on the oil tanker or non-oil tanker fuel oil, the compensation limit shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Maritime Commercial Law on the limitation of liability in maritime affairs.
The seizure of the vessel shall not be subject to the time limit provided in the preceding paragraph if the maritime claimant institutes a lawsuit or applies for arbitration within 30 days or applies for the seizure of the vessel during the lawsuit or arbitration proceedings.
Enterprises or their management units that develop offshore petroleum shall submit a report on the impact on the marine environment before preparing the plan task book, including effective measures to prevent pollution and damage to the marine environment, and report to the State Environmental Protection Department for approval.
The party cannot rebut its statements in the Marine Accident Investigation Form and the evidence already completed, except for new evidence and sufficient reasons for not submitting the evidence during the evidence period.
If the owner or agent of the goods fails to pay the ship pollution compensation and damage fund within the prescribed time limit, a penalty of five thousandths of the unpaid amount shall be added daily from the date of payment.
The carrier claims the overdue container fee based on the contract of sea transportation of goods, and if the contract of sea transportation of goods has a standard for the overdue container fee, the people's court may determine the fee according to the standard.
The county-level people's government and above where the ferry terminal is located shall establish and perfect the responsibility system for ferry terminal safety management, formulate the method for ferry terminal safety management, supervise and guide the operator of the ferry terminal to implement the responsibility of the safety subject, maintain the order of ferry transportation, and ensure the safety of ferry transportation.
The water transportation operator shall conduct water transportation business activities in accordance with the law and in good faith, and shall not compete for customers, cargo and provide transportation services by means of unreasonable freight or other unfair and irregular behavior.
The port operators shall implement the government guiding price or government-set price for the port operation fees in accordance with the law.
New-built ships constructed within the country shall apply for ship registration with the ship registration authority of the ship construction place within 10 working days after laying keel or reaching a similar construction stage.
The safety evaluation activities of safety evaluation institutions shall comply with the provisions of relevant laws, regulations, rules and national standards or industry standards for ensuring safe production.
The ship inspection agency shall inspect the situation of marking the ship identification number on the ship body and record the location, method, character and so on of the marking in the ship inspection report.
In the event of a major or above marine pollution accident caused or likely to cause serious impacts outside the jurisdictional waters of the People's Republic of China, the State Administration for Maritime Affairs may send personnel to conduct an investigation of the accident.
The person responsible for the claim for maritime compensation under Article 207 of the Maritime Commercial Law shall not raise the defense of limiting the liability for maritime compensation, and the people’s court shall support the creditor’s application for enforcement of the property of the person responsible for the claim for maritime compensation other than the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund, based on the effective judgment or arbitration award, except that the creditor applies for registration of the claim as evidence of the claim and the maritime court decides to grant it.
During the mediation process, if a party applies for arbitration, files a lawsuit with the people’s court or withdraws from the mediation in the middle, the mediation agency shall be notified in a timely manner, and the mediation agency shall terminate the mediation and notify the other parties.
The charter party contract signed by the lessor who has not obtained the qualification for inland waterway transport operation is invalid, and the people’s court will not support the lessor’s request to the lessee or the consignee to pay the demurrage fee according to the contract.
When the insurer pays the insurance compensation, it may deduct the compensation already obtained by the insured from the compensation to be paid.
The value of the joint sea damage shall be shared by the vessels according to the value of the vessel at the end of the voyage, less the amount of loss not belonging to the joint sea damage, or according to the actual value of the vessel at the end of the voyage plus the amount of loss sacrificed by the joint sea damage.
The port planning shall conform to the town system planning and be coordinated with the overall land use planning, the city master plan, the river basin planning, the flood control planning, the ocean functional zone planning, the waterway transport development planning and other transportation mode development planning, as well as other relevant plans stipulated by laws and administrative regulations.
The foreign-flagged oil tankers shall meet the requirements of the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978, and the requirements of the Oil Pollution Prevention Regulations in Schedule I of the Convention.
If the name of the consignor recorded in the bill of lading or other transportation document is inconsistent with the person who booked the shipment with the carrier or its agent, the record in the bill of lading or other transportation document shall only have the preliminary evidentiary effect for the parties of the contract of affreightment, and the people’s court shall determine the name of the consignor based on the circumstances of the conclusion and performance of the contract of affreightment.
The inspected units and relevant personnel shall accept the supervision and inspection conducted by the port administrative management department in accordance with the law, and shall truthfully provide relevant information and materials, and shall not refuse the inspection or conceal, falsify or provide false information and materials.
An application for a seafarer’s certificate may be made in writing to any maritime administration having the power to issue the certificate and accompanied by the documents proving that the applicant meets the conditions stipulated in Article 5 of these Regulations.
In the case of joint marine insurance guarantee, the guarantee deposit shall be deposited by the marine insurance appraiser on behalf of the custodian in a bank.
The ship owner, the ship oil pollution liability insurer or the financial guarantor shall apply for the establishment of the oil pollution liability compensation fund, and the interested parties who have objections to the limitation of compensation liability claimed by the ship owner shall submit them in writing within the objection period stipulated in Article 106 (1) of the Special Maritime Procedure Law, but the establishment of the fund shall not be affected by the submission of the objection.
The shipbreaking unit shall equip or set up the necessary oil-preventing devices, oil receiving equipment, oil-containing sewage receiving and treatment facilities or equipment, and waste recycling disposal sites, and shall be approved by the environmental protection department that has approved the environmental impact report (table), and only after receiving the certificate of approval can it enter the ship for dismantling.
When a vessel submits a maritime declaration, a copy of the supporting documents, including the certificate of master, certificate of nationality (or registration) of the vessel, list of crew members, weather report (if relevant) and other relevant documents, shall be attached to the declaration to prove the declaration.
The right to use the sea area expires if the right holder does not apply for renewal or if the application for renewal is not approved.
Comply with the management system of vessels and duty regulations, and operate, control and manage vessels in accordance with the rules of maritime traffic safety and prevention and control of vessel pollution. Truthfully fill in relevant legal documents of vessels, and shall not conceal, alter or destroy relevant legal documents or certificates of vessels.
The captain shall record the birth or death of a person on board in the logbook and make a certificate with the participation of two witnesses.
Engage in ship agency, water passenger transport agency and water cargo transport agency business, and shall complete the filing procedures with the water transport management department of the municipal people's government where it is located within 15 working days from the date of approval for establishment and registration by the administrative department for industry and commerce.
Maritime compulsory order refers to a compulsory measure ordered by a maritime court to the requested party to act or not to act, in order to protect the legitimate rights and interests of the applicant.
When the port operator changes or transforms the fixed operating facilities such as the terminal, passenger station, storage yard, warehouse, tank, shore power supply and sewage pre-treatment facilities, it shall perform the corresponding procedures in accordance with the relevant laws, regulations and rules.
Ships shall use VHF radios in ports and shall comply with the Provisional Measures for the Use of VHF Radios by Foreign Ships issued by the Ministry of Transport of the People’s Republic of China.
The implementation of the port operation license shall follow the principles of fairness, impartiality and transparency, and shall not charge fees, and shall be subject to social supervision.
The salvage value of the vessel and other property means the estimated value or the actual income from the sale of the vessel and other property after the salvage, less the relevant taxes and customs, quarantine and inspection fees, and the cost of unloading, storage, appraisal and sale.
Vessels shall apply for a ship security survey during the ship security period at least once between the second and third anniversary of the validity of the International Ship Security Certificate in accordance with the regulations of the China Maritime Safety Administration.
When the port of registry of a ship changes due to the sale and purchase of the ship, the new owner of the ship shall submit the certificate of ownership and the valid certificate of ship technology to the new ship registration authority.
The maritime administration shall issue the corresponding certificate of seaworthiness and the seaman’s service book to the seaman who meets the conditions and passes the seaman’s service examination organized by the national maritime administration.
For the ships sold abroad, the shipping registration authority may issue a certificate of cancellation of nationality according to the specific circumstances or a certificate of cancellation of nationality at the time of re-registration.
Foreign vessels that enter the waters under the jurisdiction of the People's Republic of China without obtaining fishing permits or that have obtained fishing permits but are sailing outside the authorized fishing areas, and fail to store fishing gear in the hold or tie and cover them as required, shall be fined with a fine of no more than RMB 30,000 by the Fishery Harbor Supervision and Administration Institution of the People's Republic of China.
The business operator of ship agency, waterway passenger transport agency and waterway cargo transport agency shall accept the entrusted agency service and sign a written contract with the entrustor, and handle the agency business according to the relevant provisions of the state and the contract.
If the port operator changes the legal representative or person in charge or the office address, it shall file an application for record with the port administrative management department and issue a new Port Operation License.
When conducting supervision and inspection in accordance with the law, supervision and inspection personnel of the port administrative department shall have the right to inquire relevant units and persons, and may examine and copy relevant materials.
The provisions of this Chapter on the rights and obligations of the lessor and lessee shall apply only when the ship charter contract is silent or contains no different provisions.
The maritime court shall send a notice to the registration authority of the country where the auctioned ship is registered and to the known priority creditors, mortgagees and owners of the auctioned ship thirty days before the auction.
In order to perfect the mechanism of compensation for damage caused by ship pollution accidents, establish a civil liability insurance system for oil pollution damage of ships, and in accordance with the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Protection of Marine Environment, the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Maritime Commerce, the Regulations of the People’s Republic of China on the Prevention and Control of Pollution of the Marine Environment by Ships, and other laws, administrative regulations and international treaties concluded or participated in by China, formulate this method.
As the basis for the determination of the enterprise credit status, the customs administrative penalty shall be determined according to the time when the customs administrative penalty decision is made.
When ships are sailing on the sea, the captain may take necessary measures, such as confinement or other measures, to those who conduct illegal or criminal activities on the ship to ensure the safety of the people on the ship and the ship itself, according to the provisions of the law.
Maritime administration shall conduct port state control and coastal state control on foreign ships in accordance with laws, administrative regulations and international treaties concluded or participated by the People’s Republic of China.
The maritime administration supervises and conducts random inspections on the daily work of the personnel who declare or report dangerous goods and the container box inspection personnel, and implements a system of honest management.
If the name, address, legal representative and so on of the dispatching agency for seafarers recorded on the qualification certificate of the dispatching agency for seafarers are changed, the dispatching agency for seafarers shall apply for the change within 30 working days from the date of change to the directly underneath maritime administration.
The insurer of oil pollution liability or other person providing financial security who is sued shall have the right to join the lawsuit against the ship owner who caused the oil pollution.
The owner or operator of a Chinese-flagged ship or water facility that is scrapped shall report it to the domestic ship inspection agency, and the domestic ship inspection agency shall cancel the inspection certificate.
A bareboat charter contract refers to a contract whereby the ship lessor provides the lessee with a ship without crew, and the lessee takes possession, uses and operates the ship during the agreed period, and pays rent to the lessor.
Joint marine peril means that the ship, cargo and other properties are exposed to common danger during the same voyage at sea, and the special sacrifice and special expenses paid for the joint safety are directly caused by the measures taken reasonably and intentionally.
The lawsuits filed in the People's Republic of China territory and the waters under its jurisdiction in connection with the contract disputes of marine exploration and development shall be under the jurisdiction of the Maritime Court of the place where the contract is performed.
The international navigation ships shall apply for the permit to the maritime administration and accept the supervision and inspection of the maritime administration and other inspection agencies at the port of entry and exit according to the law.
The right to request for assistance in a maritime disaster shall be valid for two years from the date of termination of the assistance operation.
For ships of Chinese ports facilities that are not duly issued with valid Port Facility Security Certificate, the port administration agency shall take administrative compulsory measures such as prohibiting the ships from entering the port or expelling them from the port.
If the certificate of mortgage of vessel or the certificate of vessel in bareboat charter is lost or destroyed, the certificate holder shall report it to the vessel registration authority of the home port.
After the ship is scrapped, the ship operation certificate or the international ship registration certificate shall be invalid from the date of scrapping, and the ship owner or operator shall return the ship operation certificate or the international ship registration certificate to the issuing authority for cancellation within 15 days from the date of scrapping.
After receiving the application for auctioning the ship's cargo, the Maritime Court shall conduct an examination and make a decision within seven days to allow or not to allow the auctioning of the ship's cargo.
Port operators, cargo handling operators and operators engaged in ship port services, port facility equipment and machinery rental and maintenance shall not use improper means to exclude competitors, restrict or impede fair competition.
The interest stipulated in Article 213 of the Maritime Commercial Law shall be calculated from the date of the maritime accident to the date of establishment of the fund, based on the benchmark interest rate of one-year loan of financial institutions determined by the People’s Bank of China.
Units that are not authorized to use the seas illegally authorize the use of the seas, exceed the authorization limit and illegally authorize the use of the seas, or do not authorize the use of the seas according to the marine functional zones, the authorization documents are invalid, and the illegally used seas are recovered.
The liable party did not raise an objection to the limitation of liability claimed by the shipowner within the period of objection for oil pollution damage caused by the oil tanker carrying persistent oil, and after the establishment of the Oil Pollution Damage Fund for Limitation of Liability, the Maritime Court shall release the seizure of the property of the shipowner or return the guarantee provided for the release of the seizure.
If a vessel or offshore facility fails to fulfill its obligation of rendering assistance at sea in accordance with law, and does not obey the command of the Offshore Rescue Center, the maritime management institution shall impose a fine of RMB 30,000 to RMB 300,000 on the owner, operator or manager of the vessel or offshore facility, and suspend the certificate of competency of the captain or responsible crew member for six months to one year, and even revoke the certificate of competency of the crew member.
The collision of the ships was caused by the fault of one of the ships, and the ship at fault shall bear the liability for compensation.
Vessels shall report to the maritime administration according to the provisions of laws and administrative regulations on the safety of water transport when entering or leaving ports.
During the towing operation at sea, if the fault of the towing vessel or the vessel to be towed causes the death or injury of a third person or property loss, the towing vessel and the vessel to be towed shall bear joint and several liability to the third person.
The on-site supervision and inspection shall be recorded on the spot, including the time, content and results of the inspection, and the signature of the inspected unit or individual shall be affixed.
The carrier shall deliver the goods according to the original bill of lading without consecutive endorsement, and the claimant shall request the carrier to bear the loss caused thereby. The people's court shall support the claimant, except that the carrier proves that the bill of lading holder has obtained the right of the bill of lading through other legal means besides the endorsement.
Vessels sailing in ports and coastal waters of the People's Republic of China shall not engage in activities that endanger the security and interests of the People's Republic of China, and shall abide by the relevant provisions on straits, waterways, shipping lanes and prohibited areas.
Vessels carrying oil substances within the waters under the jurisdiction of the People’s Republic of China and vessels carrying non-oil substances of more than 1,000 tons in total shall, according to the provisions of this method, purchase marine civil liability insurance for oil pollution damage or obtain corresponding financial guarantees.
When ships conduct transshipment operations of hazardous liquid cargo in bulk, they shall prepare operation plans and adopt effective safety and pollution prevention measures, and report to the marine management agency of the operation area for approval.
When the port where the deep-water berth is located receives an application, the port administration department shall conduct an on-site verification of the berth line applied for and verify the application materials, and then report to the provincial port administration department.
The functions and locations of the proposed port projects are significantly different from the overall port planning, and it was determined after special discussion that the port planning should be changed according to the selected scheme. The approval and authorization procedures for the port construction project should be carried out after the port planning is revised or adjusted according to the procedures.
The port administrative management departments referred to in this regulation include the transportation departments that assume the port administrative management functions or the port management departments that are separately established from the transportation departments.
Ship and relevant operating units shall take effective measures to prevent water pollution according to relevant laws, regulations and standards when they engage in operations with pollution risks.
The carrier shall not be liable for compensation if it is proved that the death or personal injury of the passenger or the loss of or damage to the passenger’s baggage was caused by the passenger’s own fault or the passenger’s death was caused by the passenger’s own health condition.
“Marine Notice Certificate” refers to the written review of the content of the Marine Notice by the maritime administration when the applicant vessel applies for the Marine Notice Certificate, and the certificate is “approved for inspection” to indicate that the vessel has reported relevant matters of the Marine Notice to the maritime administration.
The owner of the vessel or the bareboat charterer shall apply to the vessel registration authority of the place where the vessel is to be registered for the first time for the initial inspection or the corresponding inspection procedure when purchasing the vessel from abroad, renting the vessel from abroad under bareboat charter or transferring the vessel from other purposes to the vessel subject to the Regulations of the People’s Republic of China on Vessel Registration.
Where enterprises are merged, split up or jointly invested or cooperated with others, the government of the original approval authority shall approve the change of the right holder of the seabed use.
Maritime administration shall impose a cumulative point system on crew members who violate laws and administrative regulations on waterway traffic safety and prevention of pollution of water areas, in addition to imposing administrative penalties in accordance with law.
When a ship carries dangerous goods to and from ports, the shipowner shall apply for the declaration of carrying dangerous goods to the maritime administration 24 hours before the ship enters or leaves the port (or before the ship leaves the previous port if the voyage is less than 24 hours), and submit the application form and the materials required by the relevant regulations of the Ministry of Transport to the maritime administration for approval before the ship enters or leaves the port.
The ship management business operator shall maintain the effectiveness of the safety and pollution prevention management system and fulfill the relevant obligations of ship safety and pollution prevention management.
In the event of a ship pollution accident occurring outside the waters under the jurisdiction of the People's Republic of China, the investigating and handling agency shall be designated by the State Maritime Administration.
The port operators of dangerous goods shall arrange special personnel to conduct on-site safety management for lifting, fire, temporary electricity and other dangerous operations specified by the State Council Department of Emergency Management and relevant departments of the State Council, and ensure compliance with operation procedures and implementation of safety measures.
The insurer shall compensate for the losses caused by several insurance accidents during the insurance period, even if the total amount of losses exceeds the insurance amount.
The ship registration port shall be selected by the ship owner according to the location of its residence or main business place, but not more than two ship registration ports.
The Maritime Court may seize other ships owned by the ship owner, bareboat charterer, time charterer or voyage charterer liable for the maritime claim, except for the claims related to the ownership or possession of the ships.
Military vessels of the People's Republic of China and official vessels shall, in case of emergency, be exempted from the relevant rules on navigation, anchoring and operation, provided that maritime traffic safety is ensured.
The period of time for the Maritime Court to make a ruling within fifteen days as stipulated in Article 106, Paragraph 2 of the Special Procedures Law for Maritime Litigation shall be calculated from the thirtieth day after the date of the last announcement of the Maritime Court accepting the application for the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund.
If there is any change in the registration items of the ship mortgage right, the mortgagor and the mortgagee shall jointly apply to the shipping registration authority of the port of registry for registration of the change, and submit the certification documents of the change items and relevant ship registration certificates.
The port layout planning of provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the central government shall be approved and implemented after the Ministry of Transportation solicits the opinions of relevant provincial, autonomous regional, and municipal people’s governments and relevant departments of the State Council.
If the port operation entrant fails to provide the relevant information of the dangerous goods entrusted to the port operator as required, the administrative management department of the port where it is located shall order it to make corrections and impose a fine of RMB 50,000 to RMB 100,000.
The port administrative department shall, in accordance with the law, conduct supervision and inspection of the port safety production situation and the implementation of this regulation, and publish the inspection results to the public.
Foreign international ship transportation operators and permanent representative agencies of foreign international shipping auxiliary enterprises engaging in business activities shall be ordered by the market supervision and administration departments to stop business activities and be punished according to law.
If the ship pollution removal unit is found to have violated this regulation or has not fulfilled the ship pollution removal agreement, it shall be reported to the direct maritime management institution of the location of the ship pollution removal unit.
International treaties concluded or participated in by the People's Republic of China and the Civil Procedure Law of the People's Republic of China shall apply to foreign maritime litigation, unless the provisions of the international treaty are different from those of the Civil Procedure Law of the People's Republic of China, except for the provisions of the international treaty that the People's Republic of China has reserved.
The dispatching agency of seafarers shall sign the ship crew service agreement with the overseas ship owner only after it has fully understood and ensured the creditworthiness and good operation of the overseas ship owner.
All units and individuals entering the waters under the jurisdiction of the People's Republic of China shall have the responsibility to protect the marine environment and the obligation to supervise and report pollution and damage to the marine environment.
Any unit or individual shall not levy or illegally collect fees from port operators, port cargo handling operators, and operators engaged in ship port services, port facility equipment and machinery rental and maintenance.
If the dangerous goods port operator fails to purchase the security production liability insurance as required by the state, the port administrative management department shall order the operator to make corrections within a specified time limit and impose a fine of RMB 50,000 to RMB 100,000.
When conducting supervision and inspection in accordance with the law, the supervision and inspection personnel of the port administrative department shall have the right to inquire about the relevant circumstances to the inspected unit and relevant personnel, and may inspect, copy and keep the relevant materials.
Vessels carrying less than 1,000 metric tons of non-persistent oil substances shall hold valid certificate of civil liability insurance for non-persistent oil pollution or other financial guarantee certificate.
Waterway cargo liner transportation business operators shall publicize the ships, sailing period, sailing frequency and freight charges they use to the public 7 days before the sailing of the liner route.
The statute of limitations for the insured person to request compensation from the insurer according to the insurance contract due to losses caused by the shared maritime disaster shall be subject to the provisions of Article 264 of the Maritime Commercial Law, and the starting point of the statute of limitations shall be the date of occurrence of the insurance accident (the shared maritime disaster).
If the applicant or the individual has objections to the inspection results, they may apply for re-inspection to the higher-level vessel inspection agency. The agency receiving the re-inspection application shall make a reply on whether to accept the re-inspection within 7 working days.
The value of the freight to be apportioned shall be the freight for which the carrier is liable and entitled to receive upon termination of the voyage, less the operating expenses paid in respect of the voyage in question after the occurrence of the common maritime peril, plus the amount of the freight lost in the common maritime peril.
If the accident investigation needs to entrust relevant institutions with technical appraisal or inspection and test, the accident investigation institution shall entrust institutions with qualifications required by the state.
If an advanced certified enterprise is suspected of violating laws and regulations related to customs management functions, the customs shall suspend the application of the management measures for advanced certified enterprises.
The port planning shall be formulated on the basis of the requirements of national economic and social development and the needs of national defense construction, and shall take into account the factors of industrial layout, port resource conditions, and comprehensive transport network conditions, and reflect the principles of implementing the scientific outlook on development and reasonable utilization of coastline resources.
When the applicant submits the application materials, the applicant for international ship registration shall not submit the certificate issued by the maritime administration or the ship inspection agency that can be queried through the information system.
The ship mortgage contract is terminated, and the mortgagee and the mortgagor shall carry out the deregistration by presenting the certificate of ship ownership registration, the certificate of ship mortgage right registration and the document of termination of the mortgage contract signed by the mortgagee to the ship registration authority of the home port of the ship.
For oil pollution damage caused by the loading of persistent oil on an oil tanker, the shipowner, the insurer or the financial guarantor of the shipowner shall apply for the establishment of an oil pollution liability compensation restriction fund, and the injured party shall apply for the registration of claims and compensation. If this provision is silent, the provisions of the Maritime Procedure Law for Special Proceedings and relevant judicial interpretations shall apply.
Classification inspection refers to the inspection of vessels and floating facilities conducted by the inspection agency of the vessel to be classified according to the classification inspection technical standards of the inspection agency of the vessel to be classified, and obtain the classification mark of the inspection agency of the vessel to be classified upon the voluntary application of the owner and operator of the vessel and the floating facility.
The dangerous goods to be transported by the ship shall be packed with new or improved packaging types, which shall comply with the provisions of the Equivalent Packaging of the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code, and the performance test report, test certificate or document of the packaging shall be submitted to the maritime administration.
The parties and other persons concerned in the marine pollution accident shall provide original documents, physical evidence, audio-visual materials, and shall sign and confirm the photocopies, fax copies, and other non-original documents.
The person responsible shall not be supported by the people's court if he or she raises the limitation of maritime liability during the second instance or retrial before the first instance judgment is made.
If a vessel violates this provision and has not formulated an emergency plan for preventing and controlling pollution of the marine environment caused by the vessel and its related operations and has not filed the plan with the maritime administration, the maritime administration shall order the vessel to correct it within a specified time.
The maritime administration shall audit the safety operation and the pollution prevention and control management system of the ship, and issue the certificate of safety management of the ship if it is qualified.
In case of arrest, auction of the chartered vessel by the charterer due to maritime claims for which the chartered vessel is responsible, and the maritime claims have the priority, mortgage or seizure on the vessel, and if the owner of the vessel enters into bankruptcy procedure, the claimant may directly request the bankruptcy administrator to exercise the priority right to payment from the vessel price after the bankruptcy procedure starts, and the payment shall be cleared before the unsecured bankruptcy creditor is paid according to the bankruptcy property plan.
The materials of the investigation of maritime traffic accidents supervised by the Hong Kong Maritime Affairs Department may be consulted, abstracted or copied by the public security organs, national security organs, supervisory organs, procuratorial organs, judicial organs and the Maritime Arbitration Commission, as well as other organs and persons as prescribed by law, for the purpose of handling cases; and the judicial organs may borrow them if they are needed for court hearings.
The maritime administration designated and announced by the China Maritime Safety Administration (hereinafter referred to as the issuing authority) is responsible for the application, issuance and use management of the seafarer’s certificate.
Marine insurance contract means a contract whereby the insurer, according to the agreement, is responsible for compensating the insured for losses caused to the insured property and liabilities arising from the insured event, and the insured pays the insurance premium.
The port operators of dangerous goods shall report the major sources of danger and relevant safety measures and emergency measures of their units to the port administrative department and relevant departments in the place where they are located, and file them.
In the course of supervision and inspection, the water transport administration department shall order the operator of vessel management business to rectify the qualification conditions for operation within a specified time limit, which shall not exceed 3 months, and conduct a review of the rectification of the operator after the rectification period, and make a conclusion on whether the rectification is qualified.
The dispatching agency of seafarers shall apply for the renewal of the qualification certificate of dispatching agency of seafarers to the direct maritime administration issuing the certificate 60 days before the expiration date of the qualification certificate of dispatching agency of seafarers.
Since the maritime insurance contract did not stipulate the insured value, and after the insurance accident, the insurer claimed to determine the insured value according to Article 219, paragraph 2 of the Maritime Commercial Law, and claimed to be exempted from the insurance compensation liability for the part exceeding the insured value on the ground that the insured amount stipulated in the insurance contract was obviously higher than the insured value. The people’s court should support this claim.
If the maritime claimant does not institute proceedings within the period prescribed by this Law or does not apply for arbitration in accordance with the arbitration agreement, the maritime court shall promptly release the security or return it.
The pollution cleaning unit that signs the pollution cleaning operation agreement with the ship operation person shall conduct the pollution cleaning operation in a timely manner according to the pollution cleaning operation agreement after the occurrence of the ship pollution accident.
After the parties have completed the proof and issued the proof of completion statement to the Maritime Court, they may apply to view the factual evidence materials of the ship collision.
In the event of a blowout or oil leak, the operator shall immediately report to the State Oceanic Administration and take effective measures to control and eliminate oil pollution, and accept the investigation and handling of the State Oceanic Administration.
Operating a business of non-vessel operating common carrier (NOC) shall be registered with the transportation administrative department of the people's government of the province, autonomous region or municipality directly under the central government within 15 days from the date of commencement of business. The registration information includes the name of the enterprise, registered location and contact information.
If there is a change in the registration items of the vessel’s nationality, the vessel owner or bareboat charterer shall apply to the vessel registration authority of the registration port to handle the change of registration and submit the certification documents of the change items and relevant vessel registration certificates.
The person who is rescued shall provide satisfactory guarantee for the rescuing funds according to the requirements of the rescuer after the rescue operation is completed.
Any person who violates this law and causes significant losses to public or private property or casualties by polluting or damaging the marine environment shall be held criminally responsible by the judicial authorities in accordance with the law.
The waterway passenger transportation business operator shall provide priority, preferential, free-of-charge and other preferential services to military personnel, people's police officers, personnel of the national comprehensive fire fighting and rescue team, students, the elderly, the disabled, pregnant women and other passengers according to relevant regulations.
The waterway passenger transport agency business operator shall sell tickets at the price published by the waterway passenger transport business operator, and shall not implement different prices for passengers under the same conditions, and shall not change the published price by means of sales of other goods, cash refunds, markups, and other unfair means and obtain unfair benefits.
A rescuer shall not cancel or reduce the rescuing expenses of the same shipowner's ships unless there is a circumstance stipulated in Article 187 of the Maritime Commercial Law.
For regions with rich port resources and dense port distribution, port layout plans across provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government or municipalities and autonomous regions can be formulated according to needs.
Vessels that need to bear the costs stipulated in the preceding paragraph shall pay the relevant fees before sailing or provide corresponding financial guarantees.
The validity period of the International Ship Security Certificate shall not exceed 5 years, and the validity period of the Temporary International Ship Security Certificate shall not exceed 6 months.
The carrier shall provide the container as a means of transportation to the consignee during the process of fulfilling the contract of sea transportation of goods, and the statute of limitations for the lawsuit shall be determined according to the legal relationship of the contract of sea transportation of goods.
When a party brings a non-common damage claim to the Maritime Court that accepts the joint maritime case for the same marine damage accident, and brings a claim for compensation against the responsible party for the common damage, the Maritime Court may combine the two cases for trial.
If the port operator receives a report of real name or relevant evidence that the port operation entrant is suspected of concealing or falsely reporting dangerous goods as ordinary goods among ordinary goods, the port operator shall inspect the relevant goods.
If the maritime administration cannot identify the pollution source or find the polluting ship within six months from the date it receives the report of the ship pollution accident or discovers the ship pollution accident, it may terminate the investigation of the accident after being approved by the person in charge of the ship pollution accident investigation and inquiry institution, and shall note the reason for the termination in the Ship Pollution Accident Identification Certificate.
Maritime administration shall establish social supervision mechanism for the safety of ships, publish the channels for reporting and complaints, and perfect the mechanism for handling the reports and complaints.
In the case of items that cannot be stored, are difficult to store or the cost of storage may exceed their value, the maritime claimant may apply for an early auction.
The approval authority of the construction project shall be held directly responsible for the approval of the construction project that violates the port planning, and the directly responsible principal and other directly responsible persons shall be given administrative punishment according to law.
The owner of a Chinese-flagged vessel shall purchase marine oil pollution liability insurance from a commercial insurance institution established in accordance with law in China or a mutual insurance institution established in accordance with law in China or having a representative office or agency in China, or obtain other financial guarantees such as insurance policy or letter of credit issued by the above-mentioned insurance institutions and domestic banks.
Ship garbage, sewage, oil-containing sewage, sewage containing toxic and harmful substances, waste gas, and ballast water discharged into the ocean by ships in the jurisdictional waters of the People’s Republic of China shall comply with the requirements of laws, administrative regulations, international treaties concluded or participated in by the People’s Republic of China, and relevant standards.
Any claim against the carrier for loss of or damage to or delay in the delivery of the goods covered by the contract of carriage of goods by sea, whether the claim is made by the party to the contract of carriage of goods by sea or by a third party, shall be subject to the provisions of this Chapter governing the carrier's defences and limits of liability, whether the claim is based on the contract or on tort.
It is proved that the loss, damage or delay of the goods was caused by the intentional or reckless act or omission of the carrier’s employee or agent, and the carrier’s employee or agent shall not apply the provisions of Articles 56 or 57 of this Law to limit the liability for compensation.
If the vessel has valid oil pollution liability insurance or has corresponding financial guarantee, the court shall not support the claim of the oil pollution victim to the priority of the vessel.
If the certificate or document is obtained by the Chinese vessel through fraudulent means such as bribery, the maritime administration authority shall revoke the relevant permit and confiscate the certificate or document, and impose a fine of RMB 40,000 to RMB 400,000 on the vessel owner, operator or manager.
When the construction unit conducts the safety facility acceptance, it shall organize professional personnel to conduct an on-site inspection of the construction project and review the safety facility construction report and supervision report, safety acceptance evaluation report, etc., and make a conclusion on whether the acceptance is passed or not.
If the dangerous goods loading and unloading or transshipment operations are carried out in the port without reporting to and obtaining the consent of the port administrative management department in accordance with law, the port administrative management department shall order the operations to be stopped and impose a fine of RMB 5,000 to RMB 50,000.
The owner of a Chinese vessel shall purchase marine oil pollution liability insurance or obtain a financial guarantee from an insurance institution with the ability to pay compensation, and the insurance institution shall provide the owner of the Chinese vessel with relevant documents to prove its ability to pay compensation.
Ship and relevant units that carry dangerous goods shall be subject to administrative punishment if they violate the provisions of this regulation and the provisions of national water transportation safety, and shall be executed by the maritime management institution according to relevant laws and regulations.
If the lessor fails to provide the vessel within the agreed period of time, the lessee has the right to terminate the contract.
If it harms fair competition, the investigating authority may take prohibitive or restrictive measures such as requiring the modification of relevant agreements, limiting the number of shipping routes, suspending the registration of freight rates or suspending the acceptance of freight rate registration, and requiring regular submission of relevant information.
The ship pollution accident investigation and handling agency shall prepare the Ship Pollution Accident Determination Letter within 20 working days from the date of the completion of the accident investigation and send it to the parties.
The port administrative management department shall conduct supervision and inspection of the operation qualification of the dangerous goods port operators through random inspection, annual inspection, etc., and shall revoke their operation license if they are found to no longer meet the safety production conditions.
Vessels shall obtain and carry the corresponding certificate or document for preventing and controlling pollution of the marine environment of vessels in accordance with the laws, administrative regulations, provisions of the Ministry of Transport of the State Council and requirements of international treaties concluded or participated in by the People’s Republic of China, and carry them on board.
The costs of exercising the ship's lien, preserving, auctioning and allocating the proceeds of the ship, and other costs paid for the common interests of maritime claimants shall be paid in advance from the proceeds of the auction of the ship.
The Attachment to the Operations of Hazardous Goods in Ports shall specify the hazardous goods port operators, the operation sites, the operation methods, the names of the hazardous goods to be operated (the names of the containers and packaged goods shall be specified in the "category"), the issuing agency, the issuance date, the validity period and the certificate number.
In the event of a ship oil pollution accident, the necessary expenses incurred by the relevant units of the state for emergency response and cleaning up the pollution shall be paid in priority in the compensation for the damage caused by the ship oil pollution.
A maritime lien is not subject to the jurisdictional agreement or arbitration agreement between the parties regarding the maritime claim.
The China Maritime Safety Administration reviews the application based on the review comments, and if it meets the requirements, it will be granted a vessel identification number within two working days and an electronic label for vessel identification will be issued.
The port operators and the operators of cargo handling business shall make the connection with the plans formulated by the port administrative department and relevant departments in accordance with the provisions in the preceding paragraph, and report them to the port administrative department and the maritime administration department where the port is located for filing.
China Customs, in accordance with relevant international treaties, agreements and this regulation, conducts mutual recognition of AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) with other countries or regions, and provides relevant facilitation measures to the mutual recognition enterprises.
Ship inspection agencies engaged in the business of classification and inspection of Chinese-flagged vessels and floating facilities shall report their classification and inspection technical standards and certificate formats to the Maritime Department of the Ministry of Transport for record.
The water transport administration department shall establish a communication mechanism with the local maritime administration institution, and in accordance with the requirements of the Regulations on the Administration of Inland Water Transport, do a good job in the connection of the examination and handling of the Ship Operation Transport Certificate, and timely inform the local maritime administration institution of the business qualification of the water transport operators in this administrative region.
If the term of the bareboat charter contract exceeds 2 years, the charterer shall apply for the issuance of a provisional ship nationality certificate to the ship registration authority in the port of registry within the validity period of the certificate.
The construction unit shall formulate an emergency plan for preventing and controlling pollution and damage to the marine environment caused by the marine engineering before the official operation of the marine engineering, and report the plan to the marine administrative department and relevant administrative departments that approved the environmental impact report of the project.
The port administrative department shall establish a reporting system and publicize the telephone, mailbox or email address of the online reporting platform, accept complaints and reports of all kinds of illegal and irregular operations of dangerous goods port operations and conduct investigations and verifications, and form written materials.
The carrier and the passenger may agree that the carrier is not liable for loss of the passenger's vehicle and other luggage other than the passenger's vehicle.
Without safety condition review, the construction project of new, reconstruction, expansion of dangerous goods ports shall be ordered to stop by the administrative department of ports in the location, and the deadline for correction shall be set.
Vessels shall apply for vessel nationality registration and obtain the nationality certificate to the maritime administration according to the provisions of the laws and administrative regulations on vessel registration. Only after obtaining the certificate can they hoist the national flag of the People’s Republic of China and sail, anchor or operate.
The owner or operator of a vessel transporting dangerous chemicals by inland waterways shall purchase liability insurance for pollution damage or obtain financial guarantee.
The validity period of the Port Operation License is 3 years, and the validity period of the Port Dangerous Goods Operation Attachment shall not exceed that of the Port Operation License.
If the operator of ship and port services, port facility and equipment leasing and maintenance does not file the registration as required, the port administrative management department shall order it to make corrections and impose a fine of RMB 10,000 to RMB 30,000.
Any insurer who has paid compensation in excess of its liability shall be entitled to recover the amount of the compensation from the insurer who has not paid compensation in accordance with its liability.
Two or more vessels leaked oil causing oil pollution, and the injured party requests the owners of the leaked oil vessels to bear the liability for compensation. The liability for compensation shall be borne by the owners of the leaked oil vessels separately according to the amount of leaked oil and the harm to the environment caused by the leaked oil, and the liability for compensation shall be borne by the owners of the leaked oil vessels separately according to the amount of leaked oil and the harm to the environment caused by the leaked oil.
The maritime administration at all levels shall be responsible for the supervision and management of preventing and controlling pollution of inland water environment by ships and their operation activities within the jurisdiction of their respective duties and powers.
The port operator shall truthfully provide the port operator with its identity information and information about the goods and containers, and shall not mix dangerous goods and prohibited items with ordinary goods in the commissioned operation, and shall not conceal or falsify dangerous goods and prohibited items.
The coastal county-level and above people's government marine administrative department is responsible for the supervision and administration of the use of the adjacent sea areas in its administrative region according to the authorization.
If a dispute arises, any party involved may apply to the Hong Kong Port Supervision for investigation and handling, and the criminal cases shall be handled by the judicial organs of the People's Republic of China.
The port layout planning mainly determines the overall development direction of the port, clarifies the status, role, main functions and layout of each port, plans the coastline resources of the port reasonably, promotes the healthy, orderly and coordinated development of the ports in the region, and guides the preparation of the overall port planning in the region.
If a party withdraws from the mediation in the middle, it shall submit a written application for withdrawal from the mediation to the maritime administration, and the maritime administration shall terminate the mediation and notify the other parties in a timely manner.
When a vessel changes its home port, the vessel owner shall apply for the change of home port registration with the vessel registration authority of the original home port, holding the vessel nationality certificate and the change certificate.
If the applicant for port berth use hides relevant information or provides false materials to apply for berth use permit, it will not be accepted or will not be granted.
If the waterway transport auxiliary business operator refuses to accept the supervision and inspection of the administration department in accordance with this provision, conceals relevant information or reports or conceals or falsifies relevant information, the waterway transport management department of the county level or above people’s government where the operator is located shall order the operator to make corrections; if the operator refuses to make corrections, a fine of RMB 2,000 yuan to RMB 10,000 yuan shall be imposed.
For exclusive maritime activities that may have a significant impact on national defense security, maritime traffic safety and other maritime activities in the specified maritime areas within the inland waters and territorial seas of the People's Republic of China for less than three months, the temporary maritime area use certificate shall be handled in accordance with the relevant provisions of this law.
The maritime administration shall timely and in writing inform the water transport administration department of the prefectural people’s government of the location where the ship management operator is located of the situation of major safety accidents and conclusions, major violations of laws and regulations, non-fulfillment or incomplete fulfillment of safety management responsibilities of the ships managed by the ship management operator.
When ships enter or leave ports and anchor, they shall pay attention to the calls and signals of the port signal tower, and shall comply with the provisions of the Signal Regulations of Coastal Ports of the People's Republic of China when using visual signals.
The primary purpose of the anti-pollution measures taken in respect of a ship in distress is to prevent or minimize damage by oil pollution, and the costs incurred shall be regarded as costs of prevention measures.
A port facility security officer means a person designated to carry out the work of formulating, implementing, revising and maintaining the Port Facility Security Plan and to liaise with ship security officers and company security officers.
If a fishery pollution accident or a water pollution accident caused by a fishery vessel occurs, the person in charge shall report to the fishery administration department of the place where the accident occurred and accept investigation and handling.
The name, fixed place of business, legal representative, scope of business, and other matters of the operator engaged in ship and port services, port facility and equipment leasing and maintenance, and the operator engaged in port cargo handling business shall be changed or terminated, and the change registration shall be handled within 15 working days from the date of change or termination.
For those who report and expose concealment or falsification of pollution and damage accidents by shipbreaking enterprises, as well as those who take active measures to stop or reduce pollution and damage, they will be praised and rewarded.
If the object to be towed cannot be towed to the destination due to force majeure or other reasons not attributable to both parties, the towing party may deliver the object to be towed to the adjacent place of the destination or the safe port or anchorage selected by the master of the towing vessel or the agent of the towing party, which shall be deemed as the performance of the contract, unless otherwise agreed by the contract.
The inter-provincial general cargo ship transportation and inland water transportation operation licenses shall be implemented by the water transportation management departments of the prefecture-level cities and above, and the specific authority shall be decided by the transportation administration department of the people’s government at the provincial level, and shall be published to the public.
Vessels shall have the corresponding certificates and documents for preventing and controlling pollution of inland water environment on board and shall carry them with the vessel according to the requirements of laws, administrative regulations, the State Council’s transportation department and international treaties and agreements concluded or joined by the People’s Republic of China.
The waterway transport operator shall, in accordance with laws, administrative regulations and relevant provisions of the state, prioritize the transportation of materials, equipment, tools, emergency rescue personnel and people affected by sudden events, and ensure the transportation of emergency and important military transportation.
If the water transport administration department that accepts the application does not have the authorization, it shall verify the consistency of the original and the copy of the application materials on the spot within 5 working days and submit the application materials to the department with the authorization for the preliminary review.
If the certificate of ship ownership registration and the certificate of nationality of the ship are lost, the certificate holder shall state the reason in writing and attach relevant supporting documents to apply for re-issuance to the ship registration authority of the port of registry.
If a foreign vessel violates the laws and administrative regulations of the People's Republic of China on maritime traffic safety or prevention and control of vessel pollution, the maritime administration may exercise the right of pursuit in accordance with the law.
The contract of marine cargo transportation insurance may be endorsed by the insured or transferred in other ways, and the rights and obligations of the contract shall be transferred accordingly.
If the fault of the rescuer makes the rescue operation necessary or more difficult, or if the rescuer has committed fraud or other dishonest acts, the amount of the rescue payment paid to the rescuer shall be cancelled or reduced.
The operation license for other inland interprovincial passenger ship transportation shall be implemented by the provincial water transport administration department where the water transport operation service provider is located, and the decision shall be made after consultation with the provincial water transport administration department where the port of departure, the port of call and the port of destination are located; if consultation fails, the decision shall be made by the Ministry of Transport.
Newly opened, suspended or changed international liner shipping routes or vessels and sailing schedules shall be announced 15 days in advance and shall be filed with the transportation department of the State Council within 15 days from the date of occurrence.
Port operators, cargo handling operators and operators engaged in ship port services, port facility equipment and machinery rental and maintenance have the right to refuse to pay various fees that are in violation of the regulations.
The water transport operator shall file the record of the newly added general cargo ship with the water transport management department of the prefecture-level people's government where it is located within 15 working days after the ship is put into operation.
If the two vessels are at fault, they shall bear liability for the loss of the vessels and the goods and other property on board the vessels in accordance with the proportion stipulated in the preceding paragraph.
If the seafarer’s seafarer’s certificate is expired, lost, stolen, damaged abroad, or if the seafarer needs to disembark and transfer to other means of transportation back to China due to emergency, and the seafarer does not hold any other valid travel documents, the seafarer may apply for a travel document to the Chinese embassy, consulate or other overseas institutions commissioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Port operators shall not designate water transport auxiliary operators for vessel owners, operators and cargo shippers, consignees, and provide services such as vessel and water transportation of cargo agency.
The identification of seagoing ships shall be confirmed according to the navigation capability recorded in the ship inspection certificate, and the identification of inland waterway ships shall not be changed according to the actual navigation area of the ships.
If a ship is falsified or the ship oil pollution liability insurance certificate is falsified, the maritime administration shall also revoke the issued ship oil pollution liability insurance certificate.
If no one claims the priority of the ship during the period of priority notice, the Maritime Court shall, upon the application of the parties, make a judgment declaring that the transfer of the ship is not subject to the priority of the ship.
The claim for compensation by the shipowner or the person who has been hired by the shipowner is not subject to the shipowner's or the person who has been hired by the shipowner's right to limit liability under the law adjusting the contract of carriage, or the law provides a higher limit of compensation than that provided for in this chapter.
Engage in port operation, and shall apply in writing to the port administrative management department for port operation license and conduct business registration in accordance with law.
The ocean administrative department of the people’s government at or above the county level shall review the application for ocean use according to the ocean functional zone division, and report to the people’s government with the approval authority according to this law and the regulations of the people’s government of the province, autonomous region or municipality directly under the central government for approval.
The lessee shall ensure that the vessel conducts the agreed maritime transportation between the safe ports or places within the agreed navigation area.
The ship registration authority shall strictly carry out the registration of foreign-flagged ships purchased or leased under bareboat charter conditions in accordance with the relevant provisions on ship registration and this Regulation.
After the establishment of the Maritime Claims Fund, the Maritime Court that established the Fund has jurisdiction over the lawsuit filed by the maritime claimant against the defendant in relation to the dispute arising from the maritime accident.
If the credit rating of the enterprise involved in the same customs business is inconsistent, resulting in contradictory management measures, the customs shall implement management according to the management measures applicable to the enterprise with the lower credit rating.
Upon the request of the insured, the insurer shall issue insurance documents separately for the goods shipped in batches according to the contract of insurance by appointment.
In the course of performing the contract for the transportation of passengers by sea, if the carrier causes the loss or damage of the passengers' luggage, the passengers' claim for property compensation against the ship shall not have the priority of the ship.
If the dispatching agency of seafarers is suspended or its qualification is revoked, it shall make proper arrangements for the seafarers dispatched to ships and report the arrangement to the directly underneath maritime management institution for record.
In case of non-payment of the area use fee by the area use right holder in accordance with the provisions of this Law, the area use right holder shall pay the area use fee within a specified period.
The Maritime Department of the Ministry of Transport is responsible for organizing the examination of ship inspectors and issuing the qualification certificate of ship inspectors according to the relevant provisions of the state.
The person liable may establish a liability limitation fund in the court having jurisdiction in accordance with the provisions of this Law.
If dangerous goods port operations and facilities, equipment, devices, instruments, and transportation tools are found to be inconsistent with legal and regulatory provisions, safety production requirements, or national standards or industry standards for safety production, they shall be ordered to immediately stop using them.
The licensing department shall make a licensing decision within 20 working days and issue the “Domestic Inland Waterway Transport Operation License” and the “Vessel Business Transportation Certificate” to the applicant and the vessels put into operation by the applicant.
The maritime court may impose a fine of not less than ten percent and not more than thirty percent of the highest bid price on the bidders who participated in the malicious collusion.
The approval or authorization department of the construction project shall be held legally responsible for the approval of the construction project that violates the port planning, and the direct responsible person and other directly responsible persons shall be given administrative punishment according to law.
Those who assess the property or illegally collect fees from the port operators, port cargo handling operators, and operators engaged in ship port services, port facilities and equipment leasing and maintenance shall be ordered to return the property.
Enterprises shall actively disclose and be warned by customs or fined by customs with an amount less than the amount prescribed by the General Administration of Customs, and such behavior shall not be recorded as a record of the enterprise's credit status by the General Administration of Customs.
Foreign vessels shall obtain the consent of the government of the state party to which they belong or the captain, but shall not be inspected with respect to the planned confidential information without the consent of the government of the state party to which they belong.
If the vessel is totally lost or the repair cost exceeds the value of the repaired vessel, the joint marine casualty compensation amount shall be calculated according to the estimated value of the vessel in good condition, minus the estimated repair cost that is not caused by the joint marine casualty and the balance of the value of the vessel after the damage.
If the place where the accident occurred or the place where the accident was discovered is disputed by jurisdictional authorities or the relevant maritime administration, the investigating and handling agency shall be determined by the superior maritime administration.
If the construction unit violates the provisions of this Regulation and conducts explosion or other operations that may cause damage to fishery resources in key fishery waters without avoiding the main breeding period of economically important fish and shrimp, the county-level people’s government marine administration department shall give a warning, order the construction unit to stop the operation, and impose a fine of RMB 50,000 to 200,000.
After obtaining the corresponding qualification for international passenger ship and international bulk liquid dangerous goods ship transportation business in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation, the Ministry of Transport shall immediately cancel the qualification of the business if it no longer meets the conditions stipulated in this Regulation.
Customs shall review the application and relevant materials submitted by the enterprise according to the general standards of the advanced certification enterprise and the corresponding specific standards, and conduct on-site authentication.
Any unit or individual has the right to report to the ocean administration departments any illegal act of polluting the ocean environment, damaging the ocean ecology, etc. by marine engineering.
If the seafarer’s certificate is obtained by fraudulent means such as bribery, the maritime administration shall revoke the relevant permit and confiscate the seafarer’s certificate, and impose a fine of RMB 5,000 to RMB 50,000 on the responsible person.
In order to safeguard the procedural rights of parties to maritime litigation, ensure that people's courts ascertain the facts, distinguish between liability, correctly apply the law, and timely hear maritime cases, this law is hereby enacted.
When the ship mortgage is transferred, the mortgagee and the transferee shall apply for the transfer of the mortgage registration to the ship registration authority in the home port of the ship by presenting the ship mortgage transfer contract.
After the transfer of the vessel, the Maritime Court shall publish a notice in a newspaper or other news media to announce that the vessel has been publicly auctioned and transferred to the buyer.
The Port Supervision may mobilize and command the ships in the port or coastal waters to participate in the rescue of the shipwrecked ships when necessary, and the mobilized ships shall be responsible for the rescue efforts to the best of their ability without affecting the safety of their own ships.
The agency or individual that dispatches seafarers to be supervised and inspected by the maritime administration shall truthfully report the situation and provide the necessary information, and shall not refuse or obstruct the inspection for any reason.
If the person who is obliged to accept the legal document refuses to accept it, the delivery person shall record the situation on the delivery receipt, and the legal document shall be deemed to have been delivered if the delivery person and the witness sign or seal it and leave it at the person’s residence or office.
In violation of Articles 50 and 52 of the Regulations on the Administration of Inland Waterway Traffic Safety, if a ship or floating facility causes a waterway traffic accident, obstructs or hinders the investigation and collection of evidence of the accident, or falsifies, conceals or destroys evidence, the person directly responsible shall be given a warning and fined RMB 1,000 to RMB 10,000 according to Article 84 of the Regulations on the Administration of Inland Waterway Traffic Safety.
After obtaining the certificate of vessel inspection after acquiring the foreign-flagged vessel or leasing the foreign-flagged vessel under the condition of bareboat charter, the vessel owner shall apply for vessel registration, bareboat charter registration to the maritime management institution in accordance with law, and obtain the certificate of vessel ownership registration, certificate of nationality of vessel or certificate of bareboat charter registration and provisional certificate of nationality of vessel issued by the maritime management institution.
The ship that causes a marine pollution accident shall submit the Marine Pollution Accident Report Form to the marine management agency of the place where the accident occurs within 24 hours after the accident.
Shipping companies shall prepare the rules of the bridge, the rules of the cabin, and other ship duty rules according to the requirements of this rule and the relevant international conventions, and post them in prominent places in various departments of the ship, requiring all crew members to abide by and implement them to ensure the safety of ship navigation.
Any unit and individual shall have the obligation to comply with the laws and regulations on the management of the use of the sea area, and have the right to file a complaint and accusation against the violation of the laws and regulations on the management of the use of the sea area.
In order to avoid oil pollution caused by non-durable fuel on oil tankers and fuel on non-oil tankers, the court shall not support the limitation of liability of the shipowner for the expenses incurred thereby according to the provisions of Chapter XI of the Maritime Commercial Law.
When a party applies for the enforcement of a maritime arbitration award, the application for recognition and enforcement of a foreign court judgment, ruling or a foreign maritime arbitration award, shall be filed with the maritime court where the property to be enforced or the residence of the person to be enforced is located.
Without holding the environmental impact report (table) examined and approved, the construction of coastal engineering construction projects shall be punished according to Article 79 of the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Protection of Marine Environment.
The structure, equipment and instruments of the vessel shall comply with the relevant technical standards of the state for preventing and controlling pollution of the marine environment by vessels and the requirements of international treaties concluded or participated in by the People’s Republic of China.
If the Oil Pollution Compensation Fund is insufficient to compensate for the oil pollution, the compensation shall be allocated proportionally according to the confirmed compensation amount.
The shipping routes of the sea crossing ports shall be determined by the transportation administration departments of the county level or above people's government of the place where the port is located, in conjunction with the maritime management institutions.
In the event of an accident, a major emergency or a detention of a Chinese-flagged vessel, the shipping company shall promptly report to the Ministry of Transport’s direct subordinate maritime administration organ or the maritime administration organ affiliated to the provincial transport administration organ of the place where the flag port is located.
Maritime courts may apply the provisions of the simplified procedure of the Civil Procedure Law of the People's Republic of China to simple maritime cases that are clear in fact, with clear rights and obligations, and with little dispute.
The port operators and cargo handling operators shall establish a complete safety production responsibility system and safety production regulations, promote the standardization of safety production, lawfully extract and use safety production fees, improve safety production conditions, establish and implement a safety risk classification management and hidden danger detection and treatment system, and strictly implement the management measures.
The meeting of creditors may negotiate and sign a settlement agreement on the distribution of the ship mortgage or the limit of liability of the maritime compensation fund.
The term of the right of use of the sea area expires, and the right holder of the sea area who needs to continue to use the sea area shall apply for the extension to the original government that approved the use of the sea area no later than two months before the expiration of the term.
The Maritime Court may issue a notice of assistance in enforcement to the relevant department at the same time as issuing or lifting the order to detain the vessel. The notice shall specify the scope and content of the assistance in enforcement, and the relevant department shall be obliged to provide assistance in enforcement.
The overall plan of the port mainly determines the nature, function and division of the port area, and focuses on the planning of the port shore line utilization, water and land layout, port boundary, port construction land allocation, etc., based on the port resource conditions, throughput forecast and analysis of the ship types entering the port.
When a ship managed by a shipping company has a major accident, a series of accidents, or is detained several times, the maritime administration shall conduct an additional audit on it.
When the infringer claims compensation for the damage caused by breeding, it shall submit evidence to prove that it has obtained the right to use the sea area and the breeding permit in accordance with law at the time of the accident; the people's court shall not support the request for loss of income if the breeding is not authorized by the relevant administrative department, but the infringer shall submit evidence to prove that it does not need to obtain the right to use and the breeding permit.
The acquisition, transfer and extinction of the ownership of a ship shall be governed by the law of the flag State.
The salvage of sunken vessels or other objects in ports or coastal waters shall be handled in accordance with the Measures of the People's Republic of China for the Administration of Salvage of Sunken Vessels and Objects.
Enterprises, institutions and other producers and operators who discharge sewage pollutants in violation of laws shall be fined and ordered to correct the violation. The administrative organ that makes the decision shall organize a re-inspection. If it is found that the violator continues to discharge sewage pollutants or refuses or obstructs the re-inspection, it shall be subject to consecutive punishment per day according to the provisions of the Environmental Protection Law of the People’s Republic of China.
Vessels leased from abroad under bareboat charter conditions may have a temporary nationality certificate of vessel with a term determined by the lease period, but the term shall not exceed 2 years.
The maritime administration decides whether the certificate of compliance and safety management is still valid according to the conclusions of the annual audit and interim audit.
If the collision of two ships is mutually at fault and causes loss or damage to the ship's cargo, the right holder of the ship's cargo may claim the priority of the ship against the other ship according to Article 22 (1) (5) of the Maritime Commercial Law.
After the announcement of the maritime court's decision to auction the ship by force, the creditors shall apply for registration of their claims related to the auctioned ship during the announcement period.
After the accident investigation, the maritime administration will impose penalties on the responsible vessels and relevant operating units according to Article 90 of the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Protection of Marine Environment.
Company security officers shall ensure that the ship security assessment is conducted by personnel with the necessary skills to conduct a ship security assessment in accordance with this Code, the SOLAS Convention and the ISPS Code, and shall have the final responsibility for the proper conduct of the ship security assessment.
The special planning of port layout and planning includes multi-level port layout planning, port layout planning of transportation systems, port resource integration planning and other special planning.
When a ship causes casualties or property damage in ports and coastal waters of the People's Republic of China, it shall actively rescue the injured ships and personnel, report to the port supervision authority in a timely manner, and accept investigation and handling.
The owner, operator or manager of a Chinese-flagged ship shall apply for the Maritime Labour Certificate to the maritime administration for the ship to engage in international navigation.
The special plans of the overall plan of the port include the overall plan of the port area, the plan of the port transportation and logistics facilities, and the plan of the port storage, bonded warehouse, logistics and other special plans.
The dispatching agency for seafarers shall be responsible for reviewing the content of employment agreements, and if it is found that the content is not in line with the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement for the dispatch of seafarers to safeguard their rights and interests, or if it is not in line with the provisions of laws and regulations, relevant international conventions, or if it contains provisions that infringe the interests of the dispatched seafarers, it shall require the overseas shipowners to rectify them in a timely manner, and inform the dispatched seafarers that they shall not sign employment agreements with the overseas shipowners before the rectification.
After the application for the use of the sea area is approved in accordance with law, the State Council approves the use of the sea area, and the State Council’s ocean administrative management department registers and issues the certificate of the right to use the sea area to the applicant.
After the inspection of international navigation vessels of Chinese nationality and the inspection is in compliance with the relevant statutory inspection technical requirements, the domestic vessel inspection agency shall issue the corresponding inspection certificate or technical document using the statutory inspection issuance system approved by the Maritime Bureau of the Ministry of Transport, and the inspection shall be supervised by the maritime management agency.
In accordance with the provisions of laws and administrative regulations on water transport safety, ships entering and leaving ports shall apply for pilotage to pilotage institutions.
The applicant for the use of the deep-water berth line of the port shall submit the application materials to the port administration department of the port where the port is located and the port administration department of the people's government at the provincial level. The port administration department of the port where the port is located and the port administration department of the people's government at the provincial level shall complete the on-site inspection, preliminary examination and report within 20 working days after receiving the application materials.
Port operators shall not engage in monopolistic or unfair competition practices, and shall not use any means to force others to accept port services provided by them.
When approving the operation of a ship passing through a waterway, the port administrative department shall obtain the consent of the maritime administration and report the approval to the maritime administration.
If the application materials are incomplete or do not meet the legal form, the applicant shall be notified in writing and all the items that need to be corrected shall be notified at one time.
Vessels carrying polluting hazardous goods to and from ports shall apply to the maritime administration for approval before entering or passing through the port or staying in the port.
The port facility project using the port berth shall not be approved for the preliminary design and construction permit if it has not obtained the approval document of using the port berth or the opinion of the Ministry of Transportation on the use of the port berth.
All ships owned by the state shall be operated and managed by the state-owned enterprises with legal person status, and the provisions of this Regulation concerning the owners of ships shall apply to such enterprises.
The insured item is lost or severely damaged and completely loses its original shape, function, or cannot be returned to the possession of the insured person, which is a total loss.
The party that submits the joint claim for sea disaster compensation shall bear the burden of proof and prove that its losses should be included in the joint sea disaster compensation.
The preparation of the detailed planning of the control area and the operation area shall optimize the overall layout of the water and land areas in the control area, arrange the layout of the supporting facilities such as transportation and logistics, drainage and water supply, electricity supply, communication and information, safety supervision, port management, environmental protection, and coordinate and connect with the relevant facilities of the city planning.
When the Maritime Court seizes and auctions a ship for reasons such as maritime application for preservation or enforcement of a judgment, it shall promptly release the seizure and suspend the auction procedure after it is aware that the bankruptcy application against the owner of the ship has been accepted.
After approval, the ship registration authority of the ship's home port shall cancel the record of bareboat charter registration in the ship's certificate of ownership and ship registration book, and return the original certificate of nationality of the ship.
In the distribution of the ship price, the litigation expenses borne by the liable party, the expenses incurred in preserving, auctioning the ship and distributing the ship price, as well as other expenses paid for the common interests of creditors, shall be paid in advance from the ship price.
The carrier’s employed person or agent shall be entitled to apply the provisions of Articles 115, 116 and 117 of this Law as a defense and limit the liability for compensation if the employed person or agent proves that his or her act was within the scope of employment or commission.
If the operator stops operating all or part of the liner shipping service, the operator shall publicize it to the public 30 days before the stop of operation and report it to the original licensing authority.
If there is any change in the registration items of bareboat charter, the lessor and lessee shall apply for change registration to the ship registration authority of the ship’s port, and submit the certification documents of the change items and the certificate of ship ownership and bareboat charter registration.
In violation of Article 9 of the Inland Waterway Traffic Safety Management Regulations, personnel who have not passed the examination and obtained the qualification certificate or other qualification documents shall not engage in the operation of vessels or operation of vessels, and shall be ordered to leave the post immediately according to Article 66 of the Inland Waterway Traffic Safety Management Regulations and Article 55 of the Regulations on Crews; personnel directly responsible shall be fined RMB 2,000 to 20,000, and the employing unit shall be fined RMB 30,000 to 150,000.
In order to establish the customs registration registration and record enterprise credit management system, promote the construction of social credit system, and facilitate trade safety and convenience, this method is formulated in accordance with the Customs Law of the People’s Republic of China, the Customs Inspection Regulations of the People’s Republic of China, the Interim Regulations on Public Disclosure of Enterprise Information, the Regulations on Optimizing Business Environment, and other relevant laws and administrative regulations.
The duty watch officer in charge of navigation is responsible for the safe navigation of the vessel and for manoeuvring and giving way in accordance with the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972, as amended, and other safety of navigation rules.
After the name of the vessel is confirmed, if the owner of the vessel does not change and applies for a change of the name of the vessel, a new application for confirmation of the name of the vessel shall be submitted, and the change shall be announced.
Credit information that involves state secrets, national security, public interests, business secrets or personal privacy shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of laws and administrative regulations.
In order to regulate the approval and administration of port berths, ensure the rational development and utilization of port berth resources, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of parties concerned, this method is formulated in accordance with the Port Law of the People’s Republic of China and relevant laws and regulations.
In case of disputes over the use of the sea area, the parties shall seek mediation by the ocean administrative department of the people’s government at or above the county level if they fail to reach a settlement through negotiation.
If the applicant conceals relevant information or provides false materials to apply for the seafarer’s certificate, the issuing organ shall not accept the application or administrative approval, and shall give a warning.
The ship management business operator shall not rent, lend or illegally transfer the ship management business operation permit in other forms.
The decision to suspend the granting of new capacity permits for specific routes for liner transportation of passengers and routes for the transportation of dangerous goods in bulk in liquid form and water areas shall be made in accordance with the results of market monitoring and analysis of water transport.
In the course of auditing the safety management system, the maritime administration shall find out the non-compliance with the regulations and require the shipping company to make corrections within a specified period of time, and assign the auditor to verify the corrective measures taken by the shipping company within the specified period of time.
Chinese seafarers shall apply for seafarer’s qualification certificate and health certificate to the maritime administration in accordance with the provisions of laws and administrative regulations on seafarer management.
When the parties apply for the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund before the lawsuit, they shall apply to the Maritime Court of the place where the accident occurred, the place where the contract was performed or the place where the ship was arrested.
The maritime claim for compensation that can be limited by the Article 207 of the Law of the Sea does not include the claim for salvage, rescue, removal, demolition or rendering harmless of sunken, stranded, grounded or abandoned ship, or the claim for salvage, removal, demolition or rendering harmless of goods on board the ship.
Chinese seamen holding seamen’s certificates shall enjoy the rights and facilitation of passage in accordance with the laws of the locality and relevant international treaties, as well as the provisions of the shipping or navigation agreements signed between the People’s Republic of China and the relevant countries in other countries and regions.
If the collision of the two ships results in the loss or damage of the passengers' luggage, the passengers may claim the priority of the ship against the other ship according to Article 22, Paragraph 1, Subparagraph 5 of the Maritime Commercial Law.
Vessels shall not sound their horns arbitrarily in the port except for the safety of navigation. If it is necessary to test the horn, it shall be reported to the port supervision in advance.
The ships to which the provisions of the Maritime Commerce Law Chapter XI on the limitation of liability in maritime accidents apply shall be seagoing ships as defined in Article 3 of the Maritime Commerce Law, and shall not apply to inland waterway vessels.
Vessels, aircraft, platforms and other transportation tools that dump wastes shall be exempted from liability for compensation according to Articles 89 and 91 of the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Protection of Marine Environment.
The port operator shall accept the self-handling of vessel or cargo by the vessel owner, operator, and the shipper, consignee, and provide convenience.
Before issuing the trial voyage inspection certificate, domestic ship inspection institutions shall conduct inspection according to relevant technical inspection requirements and confirm that the trial voyage status of the ship conforms to the ship loading and stability status approved by the ship inspection institution that conducts ship plan review and construction inspection.
If the approval authority of port planning violates the approval authority and procedures for approval, or if it abuses its power, takes bribes or is derelict in duty during the approval, the superior administrative department shall order it to correct the mistake, and if the circumstances are serious, the direct responsible person and other directly responsible persons shall be given administrative punishment according to law.
The joint sea loss sharing of the marine insurance contract, the insured party has applied for joint sea loss settlement, but within the last six months of the limitation period, the settlement report has not been made, and the insured party cannot claim the right to the insurer due to the settlement report not being made, which is an objective situation beyond the control of the insured party, and can be deemed to constitute interruption of the limitation period.
After an insurance accident, the insurer may request the insured person to provide evidence and information related to the confirmation of the nature and extent of the insurance accident and losses before paying the insurance compensation.
The ship inspection agency shall establish a statutory inspection quality supervision mechanism for ship products, and withdraw the inspection certificate or prohibit the shipment if the statutory ship products have major quality problems.
Where a creditor applies for registration of its claim and meets the relevant requirements, the Maritime Court shall make a ruling in accordance with Article 114 of the Special Procedures Law for Maritime Litigation after the establishment of the Maritime Compensation Limitation Fund.
The parties signing the Security Declaration shall ensure that an agreement is reached on the security measures to be taken by each party separately, clarify their respective responsibilities, and act in accordance with the agreement between the ship and the port facility or other ship.
The port administrative management department shall publicize relevant information to the public in accordance with law and report it to the port marine administration department and the emergency management department, ecological environment department and public security organ at the same level in a timely manner.
If the lessee fails to pay the rent for seven consecutive days beyond the time stipulated in the contract, the lessor has the right to terminate the contract and claim compensation for the losses suffered as a result.
The oil pollution damage was caused by the ship owner intentionally, and the injured party requested compensation from the ship owner of oil pollution liability insurance or financial guarantor, which was not supported by the people's court.
Vessels leased abroad under bareboat conditions shall also be provided with a certificate of cancellation of nationality issued by the vessel registration authority of the place where the lessee is located or a certificate of cancellation of nationality of the vessel to be cancelled immediately upon re-registration.
The Ship Auction Committee shall display the auctioned ship and provide the conditions and relevant information for the inspection of the auctioned ship before the auction.
The International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1992 shall apply to the person who holds a certificate of civil liability insurance or other financial security issued by the competent authority of the Contracting State or its authorized agency.
The term "natural characteristics or inherent defects of the goods" in Article 51, Paragraph 1, Item 9 of the Maritime Commercial Law refers to the intrinsic and inherent characteristics or defects of the goods, which are the characteristics or defects of the goods themselves, and are manifested in that, even if the carrier has fulfilled the duty of care stipulated in Article 48 of the Maritime Commercial Law and taken reasonable precautions, the damage still occurs under the same normal transportation conditions for the same type of goods.
The maritime administration of the place where the shipping company is located shall find out whether the shipping company has applied for and obtained the certificate of compliance, and if the shipping company or the vessel no longer meets the conditions for issuing the certificate of compliance, the maritime administration shall order the shipping company or the vessel to make corrections immediately.
Shipbuilding Contract, if the shipbuilding contract is not clear about the ownership of the ship under construction, the ownership certificate of the ship under construction shall be submitted jointly signed by all parties of the shipbuilding.
The port administrative department shall supervise and manage the storage and handling operations of solid bulk cargoes in the port area according to its duties. If the port operator stores and handles solid bulk cargoes with safety hazards, the port administrative department shall order it to eliminate the hazards immediately or within a specified period, and if the hazards are not eliminated immediately or if the deadline is exceeded, the port administrative department shall take measures such as ordering the port operator to stop operations.
When preparing port planning, the preparing department of port planning shall solicit opinions from relevant departments of development and reform, city planning, land, railway, water conservancy, ocean, and relevant military organs, as well as management organs of navigation and waterway.
The amount of the reward for rescue shall be borne by the owners of the rescued ship and other properties in proportion to the ratio of the respective rescued value to the total rescued value of the ship and other properties.
If the creditor provides a judgment, ruling, mediation agreement, arbitration award or notarized instrument to prove the claim, the Maritime Court shall, after examination, determine that the above-mentioned documents are authentic and legal and make a ruling to confirm the claim.
Vessels engaged in water transport shall carry the Shipping Business Transportation Certificate or information with the same validity on board, and shall not be transferred, rented, lent or altered.
According to the different nature or circumstances of using the sea, the gold used in the sea can be paid once or paid annually according to the regulations.
The maritime court decided to grant the applicant's application to establish a maritime liability limitation fund, as no objections were raised by the interested parties within the prescribed period.
After the termination of the right of use of the sea area, the original right holder of the sea area shall dismantle the sea facilities and constructions that may cause pollution of the marine environment or affect other marine projects.
When constructing port facilities and using the port shoreline, it must comply with the port planning and obtain the right to use the port shoreline according to the relevant provisions of the state.
Institutions shall apply to the direct maritime management institution of their domicile for the dispatch of seafarers. If there is no direct maritime management institution in the domicile, they shall apply to the direct maritime management institution designated by the Maritime Safety Administration of the Ministry of Transport.
If the insurance amount is lower than the insurance value, the insurer shall pay the expenses stipulated in this clause according to the proportion of the insurance amount to the insurance value, unless otherwise agreed in the contract.
The Port Operation License shall specify the name of the port operator, its registered office, legal representative or person in charge, scope of business, geographical scope of business, main facilities and equipment, date of issuance, validity period of the license, and certificate number.
After acquiring foreign-flagged vessels or leasing foreign-flagged vessels under bareboat charter conditions, the applicant shall apply for the initial inspection to the ship inspection institution recognized by the maritime administration and obtain the ship inspection certificate issued by it.
When dumping without the conditions and areas specified in the permit for emergency evacuation or rescue, efforts shall be made to avoid or reduce pollution damage caused by dumping, and a report shall be made to the competent department as soon as possible.
If the application materials are incomplete or do not meet the legal form, the applicant shall be informed of all the items that need to be corrected in person or within 5 days, and if the applicant is not informed within the time limit, the application shall be deemed to be accepted from the date of receipt of the application materials.
Where international treaties concluded or participated in by the People's Republic of China have different provisions from this Law, the provisions of the international treaties shall apply, except for the provisions reserved by the People's Republic of China.
If the interested party disputes the jurisdiction of the court accepting the application for the establishment of the limit of liability fund, the provisions of Article 106 of the Special Maritime Procedure Law shall apply.
Newly built ships to be constructed abroad and registered in China shall apply for registration with the ship registration authority of the place of application for registration within 10 working days after laying the keel or reaching a similar stage of construction.
The dangerous goods port operators shall apply for the renewal procedures to the issuing authorities 30 days before the expiration date of the Port Operation License for Dangerous Goods or the Attachment to the Port Operation License for Dangerous Goods.
The ship registration certificate that is damaged or lost cannot be used, and the certificate holder shall apply for a new one to the ship registration authority of the home port with the original ship registration certificate.
According to Article 85, paragraph 2 of the Maritime Traffic Safety Law of the People’s Republic of China, “the maritime traffic administration shall make a determination of the responsibility of the maritime traffic accident within 15 working days from the date of receiving the report of the investigation of the maritime traffic accident, which shall serve as evidence for handling the maritime traffic accident”. The act of determining the responsibility of the maritime traffic accident is not an administrative act, and the determination of the responsibility of the maritime traffic accident shall not be included in the scope of administrative litigation.
Any country or region that takes discriminatory measures such as prohibition, restriction or other similar measures against international shipping operators, vessels or crew members of the People’s Republic of China shall take corresponding measures according to the principle of reciprocity.
Units authorized to dump wastes into the sea shall dump them into the designated area within the period and under the conditions specified in the permit, and shall fill out the dumping record form in detail and truthfully, and submit the form to the competent department as required by the permit.
When conducting an investigation of an accident, the organ or the maritime administration that conducts the investigation of the accident shall be informed of the facts and provide materials by the parties and other relevant persons involved in the accident, and shall not fabricate, conceal, destroy evidence or obstruct the investigation in any other way.
When the ownership of the vessel is transferred, the former owner shall present the certificate of vessel ownership registration, the certificate of vessel nationality and other relevant certification documents to the vessel registration authority in the port of registry to handle the cancellation of registration.
If the certificate of civil liability insurance for oil pollution damage of a ship is lost, the applicant shall provide a written explanation and relevant supporting documents to the original issuing agency to apply for a new certificate.
If the ship inspection institution alters the inspection certificate or obtains the inspection certificate by fraudulent means, and the ship inspection institution has not withdrawn the inspection certificate, the maritime administration shall order the ship inspection institution to withdraw the inspection certificate.
If the crew service agency and the crew employing unit fail to file the relevant information of the crew they employ or manage to the maritime administration regularly, they shall be fined RMB 5,000 to 20,000 according to Article 58 of the Crew Regulations.
The accident investigation agency shall prepare the ship pollution accident determination document within 20 working days from the date of completion of the accident investigation and send it to the parties.
If the vessel is not seaworthy or in other states that do not allow normal operation for more than 24 hours, the lessee shall not pay rent for the operation time lost due to the above states, except for the states caused by the lessee.
In the event that a Chinese-flagged vessel is involved in a maritime traffic accident abroad or is detained, prohibited from entering ports or countries, or expelled from ports or countries, the shipping company shall report the relevant information to the maritime administration of the port of registry in a timely manner, and the maritime administration shall provide necessary communication coordination and assistance.
Vessel and pollution clean-up units shall sign the pollution clean-up agreement according to the sample agreement published by the national maritime management institution.
If the port operator or the port cargo handling operator violates the provisions of this Law, they shall be recorded in the credit record and be made public according to the provisions of relevant laws and administrative regulations.
The relevant personnel of enterprises refer to the legal representative, the person in charge of the main business, the person in charge of finance, the person in charge of the public relations and other management personnel of the enterprises.
For those suspected of concealing or falsifying dangerous goods in ordinary goods, or declaring them as ordinary goods, the port administrative management department or maritime management agency at the port of origin may conduct inspection and examination according to law, and the port operator of dangerous goods shall cooperate.
The auction of the ship's cargo shall be conducted by the auction organization consisting of the court executives and the auctioneers appointed by the court, or by the institution commissioned by the court.
This regulation refers to the acquisition of foreign-flagged vessels and the lease of foreign-flagged vessels under bareboat charter conditions, including foreign-flagged vessels that have been purchased from abroad or leased under bareboat charter conditions but have not yet obtained legal ship inspection certificates and ship nationality certificates in China, as well as foreign-flagged vessels purchased through auctions.
The Ministry of Transport agrees or proposes the amendments, which are adopted, or the government of the relevant province, autonomous region or municipality directly under the Central Government does not express its opinion within the specified period. The amendments may be promulgated and implemented according to law.
Chinese-flagged vessels and floating facilities shall change the vessel inspection agency, and the new vessel inspection agency shall collect the original inspection certificate when issuing the new inspection certificate.
The water transport administration department shall record the violations and illegal behaviors of operators found or accepted during supervision and inspection, as well as the handling of water traffic accidents, in the integrity file.
Offshore facilities shall have the legal certificates and documents and shall be equipped with personnel who have professional skills in collision avoidance, signals, communication, firefighting, and life-saving, as required.
If the port operators, cargo handling operators and operators engaged in ship port services, port facility and equipment leasing and maintenance violate this regulation, the port administrative management department shall record their credit information in the credit information management system for water transportation in accordance with the relevant laws and administrative regulations, and shall make it public.
Employers who have labor contracts with crew members shall purchase commercial insurance for crew members, and this shall not exempt them from the legal obligation to purchase work injury insurance for crew members.
A ship mortgage is the right of the mortgagee to auction the ship provided by the mortgagor as a debt guarantee in case the mortgagor fails to fulfill the debt, and to be paid in priority from the auction price.
If the approval authority and its staff abuse their power, neglect their duty or engage in corruption when using the border line, the relevant administrative department shall impose administrative punishment.
The bidding or auction program is formulated by the ocean administrative department, and the government with approval authority approves and organizes its implementation.
The department in charge of waterway maintenance shall strengthen the supervision and management of waterway maintenance work according to its duties, such as focusing on inspections or random inspections.
The application shall state the maritime request, the reason for the request, the object of the preservation and the amount of the security to be provided, and shall be accompanied by relevant evidence.
The port operator of dangerous goods violated the provisions of the Law of the People's Republic of China on Safety Production and was ordered to correct and fined. If the port operator refused to correct, the port administrative management department could impose a fine on it every day from the next day after the date of the order to correct.
If the port operator of dangerous goods fails to withdraw and use safety production funds in accordance with law, and fails to meet the safety production conditions, the port administrative management department shall order it to make corrections within a specified period.
If the insurance amount is lower than the value of the joint sea damage, the insurer shall compensate the joint sea damage according to the proportion of the insurance amount to the value of the joint sea damage.
An application for operating waterway transportation business or changing the scope of waterway transportation business shall be submitted to the waterway transportation management department of the prefecture-level people’s government where the applicant is located, along with an application and relevant materials to prove that the applicant meets the requirements of this regulation.
If a foreigner or a foreign vessel pollutes a fishing port and the waters of the fishing port of the People’s Republic of China, the fishery and port supervision and administration institution of the People’s Republic of China may impose a warning or a fine of no more than RMB 100,000 according to the circumstances and the degree of harm.
International shipping operators engaged in international liner transportation shall, within 15 days from the date of conclusion of the liner conference agreement, operation agreement, and liner rate agreement involving Chinese ports, file a copy of the agreement with the Ministry of Transport of the State Council.
The parties to the contract of carriage may agree that the consignee may request the carrier to deliver the goods directly, and the people's court shall accept the claim of the consignee for compensation if the carrier fails to deliver the goods or delivers the goods that do not conform to the contract.
For the issuing agencies that do not perform their duties of management of seafarers’ certificate application, issuance and use in accordance with the law, the China Maritime Safety Administration may revoke the relevant designation.
The shipping company shall apply for annual review within three months before the anniversary day of the certificate, and the vessel shall apply for intermediate review within the second and third anniversary days of the safety management certificate.