Goods includes live animals; where the goods are consolidated in a container, pallet or similar article of transport or where they are packed, "goods" includes such article of transport or packaging if supplied by the shipper.
Means for indicating that the motors of electric and electrohydraulic steering gear are running shall be installed on the navigation bridge and at a suitable main machinery control position.
When the conditions provided for in paragraph 3 of Article VIII have been fulfilled, the Director-General shall draw the attention of the Members of the Organization to the date upon which the Convention will come into force.
Any authorizations granted with respect to inspections shall, as a minimum empower the recognized organization to require the rectification of deficiencies that it identifies in seafarers' working and living conditions and to carry out inspections in this regard at the request of a port State.
Compliance with the requirements of applicable international instruments on the acceptable levels of exposure to workplace hazards on board ships and on the development and implementation of ships' occupational safety and health policies and programmes shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this Convention.
Measures shall be taken to the satisfaction of the Administration to ensure that the equipment is functioning in a reliable manner and that satisfactory arrangements are made for regular inspections and routine tests to ensure continuous reliable operation.
They shall also take into account any impairment or disease that will limit the ability of the seafarer to effectively perform his/her duties during the validity period of the medical certificate.
Each Member shall ensure that, in its laws or regulations, appropriate on board complaint procedures are in place to meet the requirements of Regulation 5.1.5.
For ships constructed on or after 1 July 1998, where electrical power is necessary to restore propulsion, the capacity shall be sufficient to restore propulsion to the ship in conjunction with other machinery, as appropriate, from a dead ship condition within 30 min after blackout.
On passenger ships constructed on or after 1 July 2008, paints, varnishes and other finishes used on-exposed surfaces of cabin balconies, excluding natural hard wood decking systems, shall not be capable of producing excessive quantities of smoke and toxic products, this being determined in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code.
A passenger ship shall be designed so that the systems specified in regulation II-2/21.4 remain operational when the ship is subject to flooding of any single watertight compartment.
Each Member should maintain, or satisfy itself that there is maintained, efficient machinery for the investigation and settlement of complaints or disputes concerning the manning levels on a ship.
A Party to this Protocol shall have no duty to apply the provisions of this Protocol to Bills of Lading issued in a State which is a Party to the Convention but which is not a Party to this Protocol.
Except as provided in paragraph 5.2, the collision bulkhead may be pierced below the bulkhead deckby not more than one pipe for dealing with fluid in the forepeak tank, provided that the pipe is fitted with as crew-down valve capable of being operated from above the bulkhead deck, the valve chest being secured inside the forepeak to the collision bulkhead.
When the carrier or the actual carrier takes the goods in his charge, the carrier must, on demand of the shipper, issue to the shipper a bill of lading.
After the goods have been loaded on board, if the shipper so demands, the carrier must issue to the shipper a "shipped" bill of lading which, in addition to the particulars required under paragraph 1 of this article, must state that the goods are on board a named ship or ships, and the date or dates of loading.
Where the Administration may permit the conveying of oil and combustible liquids through accommodation and service spaces, the pipes conveying oil or combustible liquids shall be of a material approved by the Administration having regard to the fire risk.
Each seafarer under 18 receives, at the time of engagement, a note prohibiting him/her from performing night work or the work specifically listed as hazardous (see Part I, section 1, above) and any other hazardous work, and requiring him/her to consult the competent officer in case of doubt.
The carrier is relieved of all or part of its liability pursuant to paragraph 1 of this article if it proves that the cause or one of the causes of the loss, damage, or delay is not attributable to its fault or to the fault of any person referred to in article 18.
The provisions of this Title shall be implemented bearing in mind that seafarers and shipowners, like all other persons, are equal before the law and are entitled to the equal protection of the law and shall not be subject to discrimination in their access to courts, tribunals or other dispute resolution mechanisms.
Each Party shall provide guidance for the conduct of medical fitness examinations and issuing of medical certificates, taking into account provisions set out in section B-I/9 of this Code.
To enable the master to prevent excessive stress in the ship's structure, the ship loading and unloading solid bulk cargoes shall be provided with a booklet referred to in SOLAS regulation VI/7.2.
In the interpretation of this Convention, regard is to be had to its international character and to the need to promote uniformity in its application and the observance of good faith in international trade.
The electrical power available shall be sufficient to supply all those services that are essential for safety in an emergency, due regard being paid to such services as may have to be operated simultaneously.
Ninety days commencing from the day when the person instituting the action for indemnity has either settled the claim or been served with process in the action against itself, whichever is earlier.
Any reference to a “Contracting State” or “Contracting States” in this Convention applies equally to a regional economic integration organization when the context so requires.
Emergency sources of electrical power, fire pumps, bilge pumps except those specifically serving the spaces forward of the collision bulkhead, any fixed fire-extinguishing system required by chapter II-2 and other emergency installations which are essential for the safety of the ship, except anchor windlasses, shall not be installed forward of the collision bulkhead.
Galleys, pantries containing cooking appliances, saunas, paint lockers and store-rooms having areas of 4 ㎡ or more, spaces for the storage of flammable liquids and workshops other than those forming part of the machinery spaces.
Each Member undertakes to respect the rights and principles set out in the Regulations and to implement each Regulation in the manner set out in the corresponding provisions of Part A of the Code. In addition, the Member shall give due consideration to implementing its responsibilities in the manner provided for in Part B of the Code.
Directly or indirectly excludes, limits or increases the liability of the shipper, consignee, controlling party, holder or documentary shipper for breach of any of its obligations under this Convention.
For disputes where the total amount claimed by either party does not exceed the amount stated in Box 25 the arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the Small Claims Procedure of the London Maritime Arbitrators Association.
The carrier shall, subject to this Convention and in accordance with the terms of the contract of carriage, carry the goods to the place of destination and deliver them to the consignee.
Subject to the provisions of this article, parties may provide by agreement evidenced in writing that any dispute that may arise relating to carriage of goods under this Convention shall be referred to arbitration.
The shipper is deemed to have guaranteed to the carrier the accuracy of particulars relating to the general nature of the goods, their marks, number, weight and quantity as furnished by him for insertion in the bill of lading.
The minimum knowledge, understanding and proficiency required for certification is listed in column 2 of table A-III/6 and it shall take into account the guidance given in part B of this Code.
A safety system shall be provided to ensure that serious malfunction in machinery or boiler operations, which presents an immediate danger, shall initiate the automatic shutdown of that part of the plant and that an alarm shall be given.
The withdrawal of a declaration, or its modification where permitted by this Convention, takes effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of six months after the date of the receipt of the notification by the depositary.
As far as practicable, oil fuel lines shall be arranged far apart from hot surfaces, electrical installations or other sources of ignition and shall be screened or otherwise suitably protected to avoid oil spray or oil leakage onto the sources of ignition.
Machinery spaces are spaces between the watertight boundaries of a space containing the main and auxiliary propulsion machinery, including boilers, generators and electric motors primarily intended for propulsion.
Each Member shall give consideration to the various ways in which comparable benefits will, in accordance with national law and practice, be provided to seafarers in the absence of adequate coverage in the branches referred to in paragraph 1 of this Standard.
An amendment to an article of the Convention or to chapter I of the annex shall be deemed to have been accepted on the date on which it is accepted by two thirds of the Contracting Governments.
Every tanker shall be provided with the means to enable the crew to gain safe access to the bow even in severe weather conditions. Such means of access shall be approved by the Administration based on the guidelines developed by the Organization.
Notwithstanding articles 11, 13, and 14, the carrier or a performing party may sacrifice goods at sea when the sacrifice is reasonably made for the common safety or for the purpose of preserving from peril human life or other property involved in the common adventure.
All boilers, all parts of machinery, all steam, hydraulic, pneumatic and other systems and their associated fittings which are under internal pressure shall be subjected to appropriate tests including a pressure test before being put into service for the first time.
Cargo hoses and tank washing hoses shall have electrical continuity over their entire lengths, including couplings and flanges (except shore connections), and shall be earthed for removal of electrostatic charges.
No compensation in respect of delay is payable unless notice of loss due to delay was given to the carrier within twenty-one consecutive days of delivery of the goods.
At the discretion of the Administration, such requirements need not apply to control stations situated on, and opening onto, an open deck or where local closing arrangements would be equally effective.
The list is checked at the beginning of each voyage by the master or officer acting on his or her behalf (competent officer), who records the date of such verification.
Control stations are those spaces in which the ship's radio or main navigating equipment or the emergency source of power is located or where the fire recording or fire control equipment is centralized.
In passenger ships carrying more than 36 passengers, power ventilation, except machinery space and cargo space ventilation and any alternative system which may be required under regulation 8.2, shall befitted with controls so grouped that all fans may be stopped from either of two separate positions which shall be situated as far apart as practicable.
Such damage shall be notified as soon as reasonably possible by the Master to the Charterers or their agents and to their Stevedores, failing which the Charterers shall not be held responsible.
Shutdown of the propulsion system shall not be automatically activated except in cases which could lead to serious damage, complete breakdown, or explosion. Where arrangements for overriding the shutdown of the main propelling machinery are fitted, these shall be such as to preclude inadvertent operation.
Each Member shall ensure that all seafarers on ships that fly its flag are covered by adequate measures for the protection of their health and that they have access to prompt and adequate medical care whilst working on board.
Without in any way infringing this principle, it may be necessary in certain ports to provide several types of facilities, comparable in standard but adapted to the customs and needs of different groups of seafarers.
Practicable measures shall be taken for control stations outside machinery spaces in order to ensure that ventilation, visibility and freedom from smoke are maintained so that, in the event of fire, the machinery and equipment contained therein may be supervised and continue to function effectively.
If this is impracticable, or if lower temperatures are likely to be encountered, provision acceptable to the Administration shall be made for the maintenance of heating arrangements, to ensure ready starting of the generating sets.
This Convention enters into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of one year after the date of deposit of the twentieth instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
The maritime labour certificate shall be issued to a ship by the competent authority, or by a recognized organization duly authorized for this purpose, for a period which shall not exceed five years.
The construction and materials of all means of access and their attachment to the ship's structure shallbe to the satisfaction of the Administration. The means of access shall be subject to survey prior to, or in conjunction with, its use in carrying out surveys in accordance with regulation 1/10.
Each Member shall ensure that seafarers, who are subject to its social security legislation, and, to the extent provided for in its national law, their dependants, are entitled to benefit from social security protection no less favourable than that enjoyed by shore workers.
Except as provided for in paragraph 1.2, this regulation applies to oil tankers of 500 gross tonnage andover and bulk carriers, as defined in regulation IX/1, of 20,000 gross tonnage and over, constructed on orafter 1 January 2006.
DONE at Brussels, this 23rd day of February 1968, in the French and English languages, both texts being equally authentic, in a single copy, which shall remain deposited in the archives of the Belgian Government, which shall issue certified copies.
The officer in charge of the navigational watch shall not be assigned or undertake any duties which would interfere with the safe navigation of the ship.
Subject to the provisions of regulation I/10, paragraph 5, any certificate required by the Convention must be kept available in its original form on board the ship on which the holder is serving.
Time spent awaiting repatriation and repatriation travel time should not be deducted from paid leave accrued to the seafarers.
The arrangements of the ship's main source of electrical power shall be such that the services referred to in regulation 40.1.1 can be maintained regardless of the speed and direction of rotation of the propulsion machinery or shafting.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of article 10, where a contract of carriage by sea provides explicitly that a specified part of the carriage covered by the said contract is to be performed by a named person other than the carrier, the contract may also provide that the carrier is not liable for loss, damage or delay in delivery caused by an occurrence which takes place while the goods are in the charge of the actual carrier during such part of the carriage.
“Maritime performing party” means a performing party to the extent that it performs or undertakes to perform any of the carrier’s obligations during the period between the arrival of the goods at the port of loading of a ship and their departure from the port of discharge of a ship.
External boundaries which are required in regulation 11.2 to be of steel or other equivalent material may be pierced for the fitting of windows and sidescuttles provided that there is no requirement for such boundaries of passenger ships to have "A" class integrity.
The water head is in no case to be less than the top of the air pipes or to a level of 2.4 m above thetop of the tank, whichever is the greater.
The carrier may amend any previously issued document in order to meet the shipper's demand for a "shipped" bill of lading if, as amended, such document includes all the information required to be contained in a "shipped" bill of lading.
Every candidate for a certificate of proficiency as a ship security officer shall be required to demonstrate competence to undertake the tasks, duties and responsibilities listed in column 1 of table A-VI/5.
Main vertical zones are those sections into which the hull, super structure and deck houses are divided by "A" class divisions, the mean length and width of which on any deck does not in general exceed 40m.
The depositary of this Convention shall consult with the Government of Belgium, as the depositary of the instruments referred to in paragraph 1 f this article, so as to ensure necessary coordination in this respect.
Any special agreement under which the carrier assumes obligations not imposed by this Convention or waives rights conferred by this Convention affects the actual carrier only if agreed to by him expressly and in writing.
In order to ensure ready availability of the emergency source of electrical power, arrangements shall be made where necessary to disconnect automatically non-emergency circuits from the emergency switchboard to ensure that power shall be available to the emergency circuits.
If the state of the goods at the time they were handed over to the consignee has been the subject of a joint survey or inspection by the parties, notice in writing need not be given of loss or damage ascertained during such survey or inspection.
Where the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Standard do not apply, and the complaint has not been resolved at the ship-board level, the authorized officer shall forthwith notify the flag State, seeking, within a prescribed deadline, advice and a corrective plan of action.
The Contracting Governments undertake to give effect to the provisions of the present Convention and the annex thereto, which shall constitute an integral part of the present Convention.
The free board corresponding to each approved subdivision load line and the service configuration for which it is approved shall be clearly indicated on the Passenger Ship Safety Certificate.
The design shall have regard to materials used in construction, the purpose for which the equipment is intended, the working conditions to which it will be subjected and the environmental conditions on board.
When a negotiable electronic transport record has been used, such electronic transport record ceases to have any effect or validity upon delivery to the holder in accordance with the procedures required by article 9, paragraph 1.
DONE at Hamburg, this thirty-first day of March one thousand nine hundred and seventy-eight, in a single original, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic.
Musters, fire-fighting and lifeboat drills, and drills prescribed by national laws and regulations and by international instruments, shall be conducted in a manner that minimizes the disturbance of rest periods and does not induce fatigue.
Training and experience to achieve the necessary level of theoretical knowledge, understanding and proficiency shall take into account the relevant requirements of this part and the guidance given in part B of this Code.
Inspections in a port shall be carried out by authorized officers in accordance with the provisions of the Code and other applicable international arrangements governing port State control inspections in the Member.
Each Member shall implement its responsibilities under this Convention in such a way as to ensure that the ships that fly the flag of any State that has not ratified this Convention do not receive more favourable treatment than the ships that fly the flag of any State that has ratified it.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter and chapter 14, after a dispute has arisen the parties to the dispute may agree to resolve it by arbitration in any place.
A reliable means of vocal communication shall be provided between the main machinery control room or the propulsion machinery control position as appropriate, the navigation bridge and the engineer officers' accommodation.
Certificates issued under the authority of a Contracting Government shall be accepted by the other Contracting Governments for all purposes covered by the present Convention.
The number of openings in the extension of the collision bulkhead above the freeboard deck shall be restricted to the minimum compatible with the design and normal operation of the ship.
An action for indemnity by a person held liable may be instituted even after the expiration of the limitation period provided for in the preceding paragraphs if instituted within the time allowed by the law of the State where proceedings are instituted.
Paints, varnishes and other finishes Paints, varnishes and other finishes used on exposed interior surfaces shall not be capable of producing excessive quantities of smoke and toxic products, this being determined in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code.
On ships designed for special purposes, such as automobile or railroad car ferries, where the provision of main vertical zone bulkheads would defeat the purpose for which the ship is intended, equivalent means for controlling and limiting a fire shall be substituted and specifically approved by the Administration.
The provisions of this Convention are not applicable to charter-parties. However, where a bill of lading is issued pursuant to a charter-party, the provisions of the Convention apply to such a bill of lading if it governs the relation between the carrier and the holder of the bill of lading, not being the charterer.
Without prejudice to article 55, a holder that is not the shipper and that does not exercise any right under the contract of carriage does not assume any liability under the contract of carriage solely by reason of being a holder.
However, proof to the contrary by the carrier is not admissible when the bill of lading has been transferred to a third party, including a consignee, who in good faith has acted in reliance on the absence in the bill of lading of any such indication.
Information about the system referred to in paragraph 2 of this Regulation, including the method used for assessing its effectiveness, shall be included in the Member's reports to the International Labour Office pursuant to article 22 of the Constitution.
Every candidate for certification as master or chief mate of ships of 500 gross tonnage or more shall be required to demonstrate the competence to undertake, at the management level, the tasks, duties and responsibilities listed in column 1 of table A-II/2.
For tankers constructed before 1 July 2002, the design and construction of emergency to wing arrangements shall be approved by the Administration, based on the Guidelines developed by the Organization.
Nothing in this Standard shall be understood as diminishing the obligations and responsibilities of shipowners or of a Member with respect to ships that fly its flag.
The rules referred to in paragraph 1 of this Standard shall be without prejudice to any other rights a seafarers may have under the national law of the Member concerned for losses or injuries arising from a ships loss or foundering.
In addition to the direct bilge suction or suctions required by paragraph 3.6, a direct suction from the main circulating pump leading to the drainage level of the machinery space and fitted with a non-return valve shall be provided in the machinery space.
For the purpose of this article, notice given to a person acting on the carrier's or the actual carrier's behalf, including the master or the officer in charge of the ship, or to a person acting on the shipper's behalf is deemed to have been given to the carrier, to the actual carrier or to the shipper, respectively.
Seafarers on such a register or list should be required to be available for work in a manner to be determined by national law or practice or by collective agreement.
The officer in charge of the navigational watch is the masters representative and is primarily responsible at all times for the safe navigation of the ship and for complying with the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972, as amended.
The competent authority of each Member shall require that ships that fly its flag meet the minimum standards for on-board accommodation and recreational facilities that are set out in paragraph 6 to 17 of this Standard.
Components of a diesel engine fuel system shall be designed considering the maximum peak pressure which will be experienced in service, including any high-pressure pulses which are generated and transmitted back into the fuel supply and spill lines by the action of fuel injection pumps.
The certificates and records of equipment shall be drawn up in the form corresponding to the models given in the appendix to the annex to the present Convention.
This Article shall not prevent a Contracting State from applying the rules of this Convention to Bills of Lading not included in the preceding paragraphs.
Each Member should take measures designed to expedite the free circulation among ships, central supply agencies and welfare establishments of welfare materials such as films, books, newspapers and sports equipment for use by seafarers on board their ships and in welfare centres ashore.
When an incident involving two or more ships occurs and pollution damage results therefrom，the shipowners of all the ships concerned，unless exonerated under article 3，shall be jointly and severally liable for all such damage which is not reasonably separable．
Where such measures are adopted, seafarers covered by such measures should be advised of the means by which the various branches of social security protection will be provided.
The competent authority should undertake investigations into the causes and circumstances of all occupational accidents and occupational injuries and diseases resulting in loss of life or serious personal injury, and such other cases as may be specified in national laws or regulations.
The reference to practical test in column 3 may include approved shore-based training in which the students undergo practical testing.
Each Member shall require that ships that fly its flag have on-board procedures for the fair, effective and expeditious handling of seafarer complaints alleging breaches of the requirements of this Convention (including seafarers' rights).
Design pressure means the hydro static pressure for which each structure or appliance assumed watertight in the intact and damage stability calculations is designed to withstand.
Each Member shall require that seafarers employed on ships that fly its flag are given paid annual leave under appropriate conditions, in accordance with the provisions in the Code.
The present Protocol shall be open for signature at the Headquarters of the Organization from 1March 1989 to 28 February 1990 and shall thereafter remain open for accession.
Adequate means of transport at moderate prices should be available at any reasonable time in order to enable seafarers to reach urban areas from convenient locations in the port.
Seafarers shall be given a monthly account of the payments due and the amounts paid, including wages, additional payments and the rate of exchange used where payment has been made in a currency or at a rate different from the one agreed to.
When the renewal inspection is completed more than three months before the expiry date of the existing certificate, the new maritime labour certificate shall be valid for a period not exceeding five years starting from the date of completion of the renewal inspection.
After the date on which an amendment to the present Convention is deemed to have been accepted under article VIII, any instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession deposited shall apply to the Convention as amended.
In the event that the investigation or the inspection provided under this Standard reveals a non-conformity that falls within the scope of paragraph 6 of Standard A5.2.1, the provisions of that paragraph shall be applied.
For any Member referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, an amendment shall come into force 12 months after the date of acceptance referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article or 12 months after the date on which its ratification of the amendment has been registered, whichever date is later.
In addition, the generating sets shall be such as to ensure that with any one generator or its primary source of power out of operation, the remaining generating sets shall be capable of providing the electrical services necessary to start the main propulsion plant from a dead ship condition.
Any agreement to forgo the minimum annual leave with pay prescribed in this Standard, except in cases provided for by the competent authority, shall be prohibited.
Upon the request of a Contracting Government concurred in by at least one third of the Contracting Governments, the Organization shall convene a Conference of Contracting Governments to consider amendments to the present Convention.
Acoustic insulation or other appropriate sound-absorbing materials should be used in the construction and finishing of bulkheads, overheads and decks within the sound-producing spaces as well as self-closing noise-isolating doors for machinery spaces.
In establishing the oversight procedures referred to in Standard A5.1.2, paragraph 3(b), each Member should take into account the Guidelines for the Authorization of Organizations Acting on Behalf of the Administration, adopted in the framework of the International Maritime Organization.
The emergency switchboard shall be supplied during normal operation from the main switchboard by an inter connector feeder which is to be adequately protected at the main switchboard against overload and short circuit and which is to be disconnected automatically at the emergency switchboard upon failure of the main source of electrical power.
An indicator shall be mounted in a suitable place on the main switchboard or in the machinery control room to indicate when the batteries constituting either the emergency source of electrical power or the transitional source of emergency electrical power referred to in paragraph 3.1.3 or 4are being discharged.
Without prejudice to any wider scope that may be given in national laws or regulations or collective agreements, the on-board procedures may be used by seafarers to lodge complaints relating to any matter that is alleged to constitute a breach of the requirements of this Convention (including seafarers' rights).
Any alteration of course and/or speed to avoid collision shall, if the circumstances of the case admit, be large enough to be readily apparent to another vessel observing visually or by radar; a succession of small alterations of course and/or speed should be avoided.
Practical measures should be taken by the competent authority or through the appropriate machinery to bring to the attention of young seafarers information concerning the prevention of accidents and the protection of their health on board ships.
A double bottom need not be fitted in way of watertight tanks, including dry tanks of moderate size,provided the safety of the ship is not impaired in the event of bottom or side damage.
Unless the Charterers have given such declaration in writing (by telegram, if necessary) within 24 hours, the Owners shall have the option of cancelling this Charter Party.
The education and training required by paragraph 2.4 of regulation III/1 shall include training in mechanical and electrical workshop skills relevant to the duties of an engineer officer.
Any part of a passenger ship or a cargo ship that is not fitted with a double bottom in accordance with paragraphs 1, 4 or 5 shall be capable of withstanding bottom damages, as specified in paragraph 8, in that part of the ship.
Service spaces are those spaces used for galleys, pantries containing cooking appliances, lockers, mail and specie rooms, store-rooms, workshops other than those forming part of the machinery spaces, and similar spaces and trunks to such spaces.
The number of scuppers, sanitary discharges and other similar openings in the shell plating shall be reduced to the minimum either by making each discharge serve for as many as possible of the sanitary and other pipes or in any other satisfactory manner.
A maritime labour certificate shall be withdrawn by the competent authority or the recognized organization duly authorized for this purpose by the flag State, if there is evidence that the ship concerned does not comply with the requirements of this Convention and any required corrective action has not been taken.
If a contract provides for future carriage of goods in a series of shipments during an agreed period, the provisions of this Convention apply to each shipment.
A certificate awarded on such a basis shall not be valid for any category of machinery installation which has been omitted until the engineer officer proves to be competent in these knowledge requirements.
The Protocol shall three months after the date of the receipt of such notification by the Belgian Government extend to the territories named therein, but not before the date of the coming into force of the Protocol in respect of such State.
Each Party shall ensure that those responsible for assessing the medical fitness of seafarers are medical practitioners recognized by the Party for the purpose of seafarer medical examinations, in accordance with the provisions of section A-I/9 of the STCW Code.
In the case referred to in paragraph 14(c), (d) or (e) of this Standard, a new certificate shall only be issued when the competent authority or recognized organization issuing the new certificate is fully satisfied that the ship is in compliance with the requirements of this Standard.
As soon as the present Protocol enters into force, a certified true copy thereof shall be transmitted by the depositary to the Secretariat of the United Nations for registration and publication in accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.
This Convention does not modify the rights or duties of the carrier, the actual carrier and their servants and agents, provided for in international conventions or national law relating to the limitation of liability of owners of seagoing ships.
No doors, manholes, access openings, ventilation ducts or any other openings shall be fitted in thecollision bulkhead below the bulkhead deck.
Such measures could include adequate instruction in courses, official accident prevention publicity intended for young persons and professional instruction and supervision of young seafarers.
External bulkheads of sleeping rooms and mess rooms should be adequately insulated. All machinery casings and all boundary bulkheads of galleys and other spaces in which heat is produced should be adequately insulated where there is a possibility of resulting heat effects in adjoining accommodation or passageways.
Relevant provisions or recommendations adopted by the appropriate national authorities or organizations or international organizations should be taken into account by those preparing texts of occupational safety and health protection and accident prevention measures or recommended practices.
In a ship engaged regularly in voyages of short duration, the Administration if satisfied that an adequate standard of safety would be attained may accept a lesser period than the 18 h period specified in paragraphs 2.2 to 2.5 but not less than 12h.
Each Members should seek, wherever possible, to reduce these periods in the light of technological changes and developments and might be guided by any recommendations made on the matter by the Joint Maritime Commission.
A proper record shall be kept during the watch of the movements and activities relating to the navigation of the ship.
If the carrier and the shipper have agreed that the goods shall or may be carried on deck, the carrier must insert in the bill of lading or other document evidencing the contract of carriage by sea a statement to that effect.
“Right of control” of the goods means the right under the contract of carriage to give the carrier instructions in respect of the goods in accordance with chapter 10.
With respect to live animals, the carrier is not liable for loss, damage or delay in delivery resulting from any special risks inherent in that kind of carriage.
When a Contracting State has declared pursuant to this article that this Convention extends to one or more but not all of its territorial units, a place located in a territorial unit to which this Convention does not extend is not considered to be in a Contracting State for the purposes of this Convention.
Each Member's responsibilities with respect to seafarers on ships that fly its flag shall include those provided for by Regulations 4.1 and 4.2 and the related provisions of the Code, as well as those that are inherent in its general obligations under international law.
Any licences or certificates or similar authorizations for the operation of private services in the territory are granted or renewed only after verification that the seafarer recruitment and placement service concerned meets the requirements of national laws and regulations.
Consideration shall also be given to the forces which may act on either side of the door as may be experienced when water is flowing through the opening, applying a static head equivalent to a water height of at least 1m above the sill on the centreline of the door.
The maritime labour certificate, the interim maritime labour certificate and the declaration of maritime labour compliance shall be drawn up in the form corresponding to the models given in Appendix A5-II.
In case of loss of or damage to the goods, the carrier is not liable for payment of any compensation beyond what is provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article except when the carrier and the shipper have agreed to calculate compensation in a different manner within the limits of chapter 16.
Oil tankers of 500 gross tonnage and over constructed on or after 1 October 1994 but before 1January 2005 shall comply with the provisions of regulation II-1/12-2 adopted by resolution MSC.27(61).
Maximum ahead service speed is the greatest speed which the ship is designed to maintain in service at sea at the deepest seagoing draught.
Main switchboard is a switchboard which is directly supplied by the main source of electrical power and is intended to distribute electrical energy to the ship's services.
Any Member whose ratification of this Convention is registered after the adoption of the amendment but before the date referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article may, in a declaration accompanying the instrument of ratification, specify that its ratification relates to the Convention without the amendment concerned.
Such a Manual shall be to the satisfaction of the Administration and shall contain all the information set out in the Specifications referred to in paragraph 2 of regulation 13A of Annex I of MARPOL 73/78.
All cocks and valves referred to in paragraph 3.11 which can be operated from above the bulkhead deck shall have their controls at their place of operation clearly marked and shall be provided with means to indicate whether they are open or closed.
Every able seafarer deck serving on a seagoing ship of 500 gross tonnage or more shall be required to demonstrate the competence to perform the functions at the support level, as specified in column 1 of table A-II/5.
When the hydrocarbon gas concentration reaches a pre-set level which shall not be higher than 10% of the lower flammable limit, a continuous audible and visual alarm signal shall be automatically effected in the pump-room and cargo control room to alert personnel to the potential hazard.
Each Member should take measures, whenever necessary, to ensure the safety of seafarers from aggression and other unlawful acts while ships are in their territorial waters and especially in approaches to ports.
The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this article are deemed to be part of every arbitration clause or agreement, and any term of such clause or agreement to the extent that it is inconsistent therewith is void.
Any such essential component shall, where appropriate, utilize antifriction bearings such as ball-bearings, roller-bearings or sleeve-bearings which shall be permanently lubricated or provided with lubrication fittings.
In the case of a ratification with such a declaration, the Convention shall come into force for the Member concerned 12 months after the date on which the ratification was registered.
In no case shall any subdivision load line mark be placed above the deepest load line in salt water as determined by the strength of the ship or the International Convention on Load Lines in force.
Appropriate means of communication shall be provided from the navigation bridge and the engine-room to any other position from which the speed or direction of thrust of the propellers may be controlled.
Each Member should, after consulting with representative shipowners and seafarers organizations, have procedures to investigate complaints relating to any matter contained in this Guideline.
In case of fire on board the ship affecting the goods, if the claimant or the carrier so desires, a survey in accordance with shipping practices must be held into the cause and circumstances of the fire, and a copy of the surveyor's report shall be made available on demand to the carrier and the claimant.
Every boiler essential for the safety of the ship and designed to contain water at a specified level shall be provided with at least two means for indicating its water level, at least one of which shall be a direct reading gauge glass.
Where the total installed electrical power of the main generating sets is in excess of 3 MW, the main bus bars shall be subdivided into at least two parts which shall normally be connected by removable links or other approved means; so far as is practicable, the connection of generating sets and any other duplicated equipment shall be equally divided between the parts.
The Administration may require that, if such compartment is flooded, essential or emergency power and lighting, internal communication, signals or other emergency devices must remain available in other parts of the ship.
Seafarers employment agreements shall be agreed to by the seafarer under conditions which ensure that the seafarer has an opportunity to review and seek advice on the terms and conditions in the agreement and freely accepts them before signing.
To identify construction and equipment requirements applicable to ships constructed before 2009, previous texts of the 1974 SOLAS Convention, the 1988 SOLAS Protocol and the amendments to the Convention should be consulted.
The security-related familiarization training shall be conducted by the ship security officer or an equally qualified person.
“Goods” means the wares, merchandise, and articles of every kind whatsoever that a carrier undertakes to carry under a contract of carriage and includes the packing and any equipment and container not supplied by or on behalf of the carrier.
If a Contracting State has two or more territorial units in which different systems of law are applicable in relation to the matters dealt within this Convention, it may, at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, declare that this Convention is to extend to all its territorial units or only to one or more of them, and may amend its declaration by submitting another declaration at any time.
A Member which is not in a position to implement the rights and principles in the manner set out in Part A of the Code may, unless expressly provided otherwise in this Convention, implement Part A through provisions in its laws and regulations or other measures which are substantially equivalent to the provisions of Part A.
Each Member shall require that ships that fly its flag carry and make available to seafarers a copy of the applicable national provisions regarding repatriation written in an appropriate language.
Thereafter, this Convention shall come into force for any Member 12 months after the date on which its ratification has been registered.
Provided that suitable measures are taken for safeguarding independent emergency operation under all circumstances, the emergency generator may be used exceptionally, and for short periods, to supply non-emergency circuits.
Where the performance of the carriage or part thereof has been entrusted to an actual carrier, whether or not in pursuance of a liberty under the contract of carriage by sea to do so, the carrier nevertheless remains responsible for the entire carriage according to the provisions of this Convention.
The competent authority and any other service or authority wholly or partly concerned with the inspection of seafarers' working and living conditions should have the resources necessary to fulfil their functions.
he carrier is not entitled to the benefit of the limitation of liability provided for in article 6 if it is proved that the loss, damage or delay in delivery resulted from an act or omission of the carrier done with the intent to cause such loss, damage or delay, or recklessly and with knowledge that such loss, damage or delay would probably result.
The provisions in this Regulation and related sections of the Code are without prejudice to a seafarer's right to seek redress through whatever legal means the seafarer considers appropriate.
Each Member shall ensure, within the limits of its jurisdiction, that the seafarers employment and social rights set out in the preceding paragraphs of this Article are fully implemented in accordance with the requirements of this Convention.
Under national law applicable to the liability for such damage, provided that such law is in all respects as favourable to persons that may suffer damage as either the Paris or Vienna Conventions or the Convention on Supplementary Compensation for Nuclear Damage.
Each fitting or item of equipment provided under this regulation shall be clearly marked with any restrictions associated with its safe operation, taking into account the strength of its attachment to the ship’s structure.
Where a door cannot be opened or closed while the ship is at the berth, such a door may be opened or left open while the ship approaches or draws away from the berth, but only so far as may be necessary to enable the door to be immediately operated.
Bulk carriers and oil tankers shall have a survey report file and supporting documents complying with paragraphs 6.2 and 6.3 of annex A and annex B of resolution A.744 (18) — Guidelines on the enhanced programme of inspections during surveys of bulk carriers and oil tankers.
An environmental enclosure for the main switchboard, such as may be provided by a machinery control room situated within the main boundaries of the space, is not to be considered as separating the switchboards from the generators.
Deadweight is the difference in tonnes between the displacement of a ship in water of a specific gravity of 1.025 at the draught corresponding to the assigned summer freeboard and the lightweight of the ship.
Amendments approved by the Conference shall be notified by the Director-General to each of the Members whose ratifications of this Convention were registered before the date of such approval by the Conference.
Nothing in this article affects any specific obligation to provide certain information, instructions and documents related to the goods pursuant to law, regulations or other requirements of public authorities in connection with the intended carriage.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of regulation 3 of MARPOL Annex I, every oil tanker of 150 gross tonnage and above shall be equipped with an oil discharge monitoring and control system approved by the Administration.
A certificate called a Cargo Ship Safety Radio Certificate shall be issued after survey to a cargo ship of 300 gross tonnage and over, fitted with a radio installation, including those used in life-saving appliances, which complies with the requirements of chapters III and IV and any other relevant requirements of SOLAS 1974.
Each Member shall verify, through an effective and coordinated system of regular inspections, monitoring and other control measures, that ships that fly its flag comply with the requirements of this Convention as implemented in national laws and regulations.
Carriage of goods on deck contrary to express agreement for carriage under deck is deemed to be an act or omission of the carrier within the meaning of article 8.
In determining the maximum duration of service periods on board following which a seafarer is entitled to repatriation, in accordance with this Code, account should be taken of factors affecting the seafarers working environment.
Every oil tanker which, in compliance with regulation 13G(6)(b), operates with Hydrostatically Balanced Loading shall be provided with an operational manual in accordance with resolution MEPC. 64(36). 
The carrier is entitled to carry the goods on deck only if such carriage is in accordance with an agreement with the shipper or with the usage of the particular trade or is required by statutory rules or regulations.
Watertight means having scantlings and arrangements capable of preventing the passage of water in any direction under the head of water likely to occur in intact and damaged conditions.
When a sample referred to in paragraph 8(e) of this Guideline is being taken or removed, the shipowner or the shipowner's representative, and where appropriate a seafarer, should be notified or should be present at the time the sample is taken or removed.
Each Member shall make rules ensuring that, in every case of loss or foundering of any ship, the shipowner shall pay to each seafarer on board an indemnity against unemployment resulting from such loss or foundering.
These fittings, together with their controls, shall be acceptable to the Administration. Suitable information concerning the use of equalization devices shall be supplied to the master of the ship.
The officer in charge of the navigational watch shall have full knowledge of the location and operation of all safety and navigational equipment on board the ship and shall be aware and take account of the operating limitations of such equipment.
Each Member shall establish an effective system for the inspection and certification of maritime labour conditions, in accordance with Regulations 5.1.3 and 5.1.4 ensuring that the working and living conditions for seafarers on ships that fly its flag meet, and continue to meet, the standards in this Convention.
Where the authority determines that it would not be reasonable or practicable at the present time to apply certain details of the Code referred to in Article VI, paragraph 1, to a ship or particular categories of ships flying the flag of the Member, the relevant provisions of the Code shall not apply to the extent that the subject matter is dealt with differently by national laws or regulations or collective bargaining agreements or other measures.
Bulkheads shall be fitted separating the machinery space from cargo and accommodation spaces forward and aft and made watertight up to the bulkhead deck.
Every candidate for a certificate of proficiency in survival craft and rescue boats other than fast rescue boats shall be required to demonstrate competence to undertake the tasks, duties and responsibilities listed in column 1 of table A-VI/2-1.
On passenger ships constructed on or after 1 July 2008, non-load-bcaring partial bulkheads which separate adjacent cabin balconies shall be capable of being opened by the crew from each side for the purpose of fighting fires.
In particular, a Member shall not refuse the right of repatriation to any seafarer because of the financial circumstances of a shipowner or because of the shipowners inability or unwillingness to replace a seafarer.
Portable plates on bulkheads shall always be in place before the ship leaves port, and shall not be removed during navigation except in case of urgent necessity at the discretion of the master.
Where, for particular compartments, the Administration is satisfied that the provision of drainage may be undesirable, it may allow such provision to be dispensed with if calculations made in accordance with the conditions laid down in regulations 7 and 8 show that the survival capability of the ship will not be impaired.
Oil tanker is the oil tanker defined in regulation 1 of Annex I of the Protocol of 1978 relating to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973.
The endorsement required by article VI of the Convention to attest the issue of a certificate shall only be issued if all the requirements of the Convention have been complied with.
The seafarers shall receive a copy of the records pertaining to them, which shall be endorsed by the master or by a person authorized by the master and by the seafarers.
The forepeak, double bottom (including duct keels) and inner skins shall be tested with water to ahead corresponding to the requirements of regulation 10.1.
Passenger ships to which chapter I of the Convention applies shall keep on board a list of all limitations on the operation of the ship, including exemptions from any of the SOLAS, regulations, restrictions in operating areas, weather restrictions, sea state restrictions, restrictions in permissible loads, trim, speed and any other limitations, whether imposed by the Administration or established during the design or the building stages.
In the case of any actual or apprehended loss or damage the carrier and the consignee must give all reasonable facilities to each other for inspecting and tallying the goods.
A certificate awarded on such a basis shall not be valid for service on ships in which steam boilers form part of a ships machinery until the engineer officer meets the standard of competence in the items omitted from table A-III/1.
Notwithstanding article 79, as between the carrier and the shipper, a volume contract to which this Convention applies may provide for greater or lesser rights, obligations and liabilities than those imposed by this Convention.
The arrangement of the emergency electric lighting system shall be such that a fire or other casualty in spaces containing the emergency source of electrical power, associated transforming equipment, if any, the emergency switchboard and the emergency lighting switchboard will not render the main electric lighting system required by this regulation inoperative.
Each Contracting Party may at the time of signature or ratification of this Protocol or accession thereto, declare that it does not consider itself bound by Article 8 of this Protocol.
Any machinery not functioning properly, expected to malfunction or requiring special service shall be noted along with any action already taken.
Machinery spaces, other than those of category A, may be permitted forward of the cargo tanks and slop tanks provided they are isolated from the cargo tanks and slop tanks by cofferdams, cargo pump-rooms, oil fuel bunker tanks or ballast tanks, and have at least one portable fire extinguisher.
Where the complaint has not been resolved following action taken in accordance with paragraph 5 of this Standard, the port State shall transmit a copy of the authorized officer's report to the Director-General.
The arrangement of the bilge and ballast pumping system shall be such as to prevent the possibility of water passing from the sea and from water ballast spaces into the cargo and machinery spaces, or from one compartment to another.
No judicial or arbitral proceedings in respect of claims or disputes arising from a breach of an obligation under this Convention may be instituted after the expiration of a period of two years.
“Non-negotiable electronic transport record” means an electronic transport record that is not a negotiable electronic transport record.
Watertight doors or ramps of satisfactory construction may be fitted to internally subdivide large cargo spaces, provided that the Administration is satisfied that such doors or ramps are essential.
The officer in charge of the navigational watch shall give watchkeeping personnel all appropriate instructions and information which will ensure the keeping of a safe watch, including a proper lookout.
A certificate called a Certificate of Fitness for the Carriage of Dangerous Chemicals in Bulk, the model form of which is set out in the appendix to the Bulk Chemical Code, should be issued after an initial or periodical survey to a chemical tanker engaged in international voyages which complies with the relevant requirements of the Code.
The competent authority shall closely supervise and control all seafarer recruitment and placement services operating in the territory of the Member concerned.
Ships shall be provided with arrangements, equipment and fittings of sufficient safe working load to enable the safe conduct of all towing and mooring operations associated with the normal operation of the ship.
Persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Guideline and such other seafarers as may be required by the competent authority should undergo, at approximately five-year intervals, refresher courses to enable them to maintain and increase their knowledge and skills and to keep up-to-date with new developments.
No doors, manholes, or access openings are permitted in watertight transverse bulkheads dividing a.cargo space from an adjoining cargo space, except as provided in paragraph 9.1 and in regulation 14.
Where registers or lists govern the employment of seafarers, these registers or lists should include all occupational categories of seafarers in a manner determined by national law or practice or by collective agreement.
Where fault or neglect on the part of the carrier, his servants or agents combines with another cause to produce loss, damage or delay in delivery the carrier is liable only to the extent that the loss, damage or delay in delivery is attributable to such fault or neglect, provided that the carrier proves the amount of the loss, damage or delay in delivery not attributable thereto.
Doors and door frames in "B" class divisions and means of securing them shall provide a method of closure which shall have resistance to fire equivalent to that of the divisions, this being determined in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code except that ventilation openings may be permitted in the lower portion of such doors.
The central operating console at the navigation bridge shall have a "master mode" switch with two modes of control: a "local control" mode which shall allow any door to be locally opened and locally closed after use without automatic closure, and a "doors closed" mode which shall automatically close any door that is open.
Each Contracting State shall apply the provisions of this Convention to contracts of carriage by sea concluded on or after the date of the entry into force of this Convention in respect of that State.
Provision shall be made to prevent the compartment served by any bilge suction pipe being flooded in the event of the pipe being severed or otherwise damaged by collision or grounding in any other compartment.
Doors provided to ensure the watertight integrity of internal openings which are used while at sea are to be sliding watertight doors capable of being remotely closed from the bridge and are also to be operable locally from each side of the bulkhead.
Except for hatches between cargo, special category, store, and baggage spaces, and between such spaces and the weather decks, openings shall be provided with permanently attached means of closing which shall be at least as effective for resisting fires as the divisions in which they are fitted.
Where vehicle ramps are installed to give access to spaces below the bulkhead deck, their openings shall be able to be closed weather tight to prevent ingress of water below, alarmed and indicated to the navigation bridge.
The electrical power circuits and the steering gear control systems with their associated components,cables and pipes required by this regulation and by regulation 30 shall be separated as far as is practicable throughout their length.
Any instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession deposited after the date on which the present Protocol enters into force shall take effect three months after the date of deposit.
Candidates for certification for service in ships in which steam boilers do not form part of their machinery may omit the relevant requirements of table A-III/1.
The document shall accompany or be incorporated into the grain loading manual provided to enable the master to meet the stability requirements of the Code.
Testing watertight spaces not intended to hold liquids and cargo holds intended to hold ballast by filling them with water is not compulsory.
The competent authority shall cooperate with shipowners' and seafarers' organizations to take measures to bring to the attention of all seafarers information concerning particular hazards on board ships, for instance, by posting official notices containing relevant instructions.
Chemical tankers and gas carriers shall comply with the requirements for tankers, except where alternative and supplementary arrangements are provided to the satisfaction of the Administration, having due regard to the provisions of the International Bulk Chemical Code and the International Gas Carrier Code, as appropriate.
Every ship certified to carry noxious liquid substances in bulk shall have on board a Procedures and Arrangements Manual approved by the Administration.
Additionally, cases of simultaneous flooding of a wing compartment or group of compartments and the adjacent inboard compartment or group of compartments, but excluding damage of transverse extent greater than one half of the ship breadth B, may be added.
The provisions of this Convention are applicable without regard to the nationality of the ship, the carrier, the actual carrier, the shipper, the consignee or any other interested person.
The construction of ceilings and bulkheads shall be such that it will be possible, without impairing the efficiency of the fire protection, for the fire patrols to detect any smoke originating in concealed and inaccessible places, except where in the opinion of the Administration there is no risk of fire originating in such places.
Every rating forming part of a navigational watch on a seagoing ship of 500 gross tonnage or more shall be required to demonstrate the competence to perform the navigation function at the support level, as specified in column 1 of table A-II/4.
As between the Parties to the present Protocol, the provisions of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, as amended, (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention") shall apply subject to the modifications and additions set out in the present Protocol.
The time of opening such sidescuttles in port and of closing and locking them before the ship leaves port shall be entered in such log-book as may be prescribed by the Administration.
The open end of air pipes terminating within a superstructure shall be at least 1 m above the waterline when the ship heels to an angle of 15°, or the maximum angle of heel during intermediate stages of flooding, as determined by direct calculation, whichever is the greater.
This regulation applies to ships constructed on or after 1 January 2007, but does not apply to emergency towing arrangements provided in accordance with regulation 3-4.
Notwithstanding the expiration of the period set out in paragraph 1 of this article, one party may rely on its claim as a defence or for the purpose of set-off against a claim asserted by the other party.
The arrangements and position of openings in the cargo tank deck from which emission of flammable vapours can occur shall be such as to minimize the possibility of flammable vapours being admitted to enclosed spaces containing a source of ignition, or collecting in the vicinity of deck machinery and equipment which may constitute an ignition hazard.
Every vessel shall at all times proceed at a safe speed so that she can take proper and effective action to avoid collision and be stopped within a distance appropriate to the prevailing circumstances and conditions.
For each State which becomes a Contracting State to this Convention after the date of deposit of the 20th instrument of ratification, acceptance approval or accession, this Convention enters into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of one year after the deposit of the appropriate instrument on behalf of that State.
The level of knowledge of the subjects listed in column 2 of table A-III/2 shall be sufficient to enable the candidate to serve in the capacity of chief engineer officer or second engineer officer.
However, the time allowed shall be not less than three months, commencing from the day when the person bringing such action for indemnity has settled the claim or has been served with process in the action against himself.
In cargo ships, other measures to minimize the danger of water penetrating into the ship in case of damage to stern tube arrangements may be taken at the discretion of the Administration.
The water level detectors required by paragraph 2 need not be fitted in ships complying with regulation XII/12, or in ships having watertight side compartments each side of the cargo hold length extending vertically at least from inner bottom to free board deck.
However, the time allowed shall not be less than 90 days commencing from the day when the person instituting such action for indemnity has settled the claim or has been served with process in the action against himself.
To the extent compatible with the Members national law and practice, seafarers employment agreements shall be understood to incorporate any applicable collective bargaining agreements.
Nothing in paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Standard shall prevent a Member from having national laws or regulations or a procedure for the competent authority to authorize or register collective agreements permitting exceptions to the limits set out.
The extension shall be so arranged as to preclude the possibility of the bow door causing damage to it in the case of damage to, or detachment of, a bow door.
The ability of the machinery to reverse the direction of thrust of the propeller in sufficient time, and so to bring the ship to rest within a reasonable distance from maximum ahead service speed, shall be demonstrated and recorded.
The Administration may permit the fitting of particular accesses to spaces below the bulkhead deck provided they are necessary for the essential working of the ship, e.g., the movement of machinery and stores, subject to such accesses being made watertight, alarmed and indicated on the navigation bridge.
The terms and conditions for employment of a seafarer shall be set out or referred to in a clear written legally enforceable agreement and shall be consistent with the standards set out in the Code.
Combination carriers constructed before, on or after 1 July 2002 shall not carry cargoes other than oil unless all cargo spaces are empty of oil and gas-freed or unless the arrangements provided in each case have been approved by the Administration taking into account the guidelines developed by the Organization.
In cases where the article of transport itself has been lost or damaged, that article of transport, if not owned or otherwise supplied by the carrier, is considered one separate shipping unit.
The requirements for on-board health protection and medical care set out in the Code include standards for measures aimed at providing seafarers with health protection and medical care as comparable as possible to that which is generally available to workers ashore.
In every tanker, chemical tanker or gas carrier of 10,000 gross tonnage and upwards and in every other ship of 70,000 gross tonnage and upwards, the main steering gear shall comprise two or more identical power units complying with the provisions of paragraph 6.
Where the contents and use of a space are such that there is a doubt as to its classification for the purpose of this regulation, or where it is possible to assign two or more classifications to a space, it shall be treated as a space within the relevant category having the most stringent boundary requirements.
A fixed fire detection and fire alarm system shall be so installed and arranged as to provide smoke detection in service spaces, control stations and accommodation spaces, including corridors, stairways and escape routes within accommodation spaces.
If the goods have been delivered by an actual carrier, any notice given under this article to him shall have the same effect as if it had been given to the carrier, and any notice given to the carrier shall have effect as if given to such actual carrier.
Such hotels or hostels should be properly supervised, the prices charged should be reasonable in amount and, where necessary and possible, provision should be made for accommodating seafarers' families.
Indicators shall be provided on the navigation bridge for all shell doors, loading doors and other closing appliances which, if left open or not properly secured, could, in the opinion of the Administration, lead to flooding of a special category space or ro—ro space.
Each Member acknowledges that the normal working hours standard for seafarers, like that for other workers, shall be based on an eight-hour day with one day of rest per week and rest on public holidays.
However, where a continuous"B" class ceiling or lining is fitted on both sides of a bulkhead which is at least of the same fire resistance as the adjoining bulkhead, the bulkhead may terminate at the continuous ceiling or lining.
Any Contracting Party having made a reservation in accordance with paragraph 1 may at any time withdraw this reservation by notification to the Belgian Government.
Lightweight is the displacement of a ship in tonnes without cargo, fuel, lubricating oil, ballast water, fresh water and feed water in tanks, consumable stores, and passengers and crew and their effects.
The Director-General of the International Labour Office shall communicate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for registration in accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations full particulars of all ratifications, acceptances and denunciations registered under this Convention.
If, after inspection, the Vessel is found not to be ready in all respects to load/discharge time lost after the discovery thereof until the Vessel is again ready to load/discharge shall not count as lay time.
The knowledge, understanding and proficiency for endorsement under the Convention of certificates issued under the provisions of the Radio Regulations are listed in column 2 of table A-IV/2.
A ship's means of access to carry out overall and close-up inspections and thickness measurements shall be described in a Ship Structure Access Manual approved by the Administration, an updated copy of which shall be kept on board.
Efficient inside deadlights, so arranged that they can be easily and effectively closed and secured watertight, shall be provided for all sidescuttles to spaces below the first deck above the bulkhead deck.
For the purpose of this regulation, transverse extent is measured inboard from ship's side, at right angles to the centreline at the level of the deepest subdivision draught.
Liquid cargoes with a flashpoint exceeding 60°C other than oil products or liquid cargoes subject to the requirements of the International Bulk Chemical Code are considered to constitute a low fire risk, not requiring the protection of a fixed foam extinguishing system.
Such a determination may only be made in consultation with the shipowners and seafarers organizations concerned and may only be made with respect to ships of less than 200 gross tonnage not engaged in international voyages.
Where the loss or damage is not apparent, the provisions of paragraph 1 of this article apply correspondingly if notice in writing is not given within 15 consecutive days after the day when the goods were handed over to the consignee.
The operational requirements contained in this consolidated text are, in general, applicable to all ships, whilst the requirements for ship construction and equipment apply to ships constructed on or after the dates specified in the various regulations.
All ships shall be provided with separate offices or a common ship's office for use by deck and engine departments; ships of less than 3,000 gross tonnage may be exempted by the competent authority from this requirement after consultation with the shipowners' and seafarers' organizations concerned.
“Container” means any type of container, transportable tank or flat, swap body, or any similar unit load used to consolidate goods, and any equipment ancillary to such unit load.
The officer in charge of the engineering watch shall be duly qualified in accordance with the provisions of chapter III or chapter VII appropriate to the duties related to engineering watchkeeping.
This Protocol shall come into force three months after the date of the deposit of ten instruments of ratification or accession, of which at least five shall have been deposited by States that have each a tonnage equal or superior to one million gross tons of tonnage.
The records shall be in a standardized format established by the competent authority taking into account any available guidelines of the International Labour Organization or shall be in any standard format prepared by the Organization.
The master and/or the officer in charge of the navigational watch shall co-operate closely with the pilot and maintain an accurate check on the ships position and movement.
The level of knowledge of the subjects listed in column 2 of table A-VI/2-2 shall be sufficient to enable the candidate to launch and take charge of a fast rescue boat in emergency situations.
Functions specified in table A-II/1 or A-III/1 respectively may be added provided the candidate completes, as appropriate, additional relevant education and training and meets the standards of competence prescribed in those tables for the functions concerned.
A single electrical failure in the power operating or control system of a power-operated sliding watertight door shall not result in a closed door opening. Availability of the power supply should be continuously monitored at a point in the electrical circuit as near as practicable to each of the motors required by paragraph 7.3.
A seafarer taking annual leave should be recalled only in cases of extreme emergency and with the seafarers consent.
Steel or other equivalent material means any non-combustible material which, by itself or due to insulation provided, has structural and integrity properties equivalent to steel at the end of the applicable exposure to the standard fire test (e.g., aluminium alloy with appropriate insulation).
The subdivision load lines assigned and marked shall be recorded in the Passenger Ship Safety Certificate, and shall be distinguished by the notation PI for the principal passenger service configuration,and P2, P3, etc., for the alternative configurations.
The Administration may omit knowledge requirements for types of propulsion machinery other than those machinery installations for which the certificate to be awarded shall be valid.
Tanks and compartments taking part in such equalization shall be fitted with air pipes or equivalent means of sufficient cross-section to ensure that the flow of water into the equalization compartments is not delayed.
Any instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession deposited after the date on which thepresent Convention enters into force shall take effect three months after the date of deposit.
Inspectors shall not be entrusted with duties which might, because of their number or nature, interfere with effective inspection or prejudice in any way their authority or impartiality in their relations with shipowners, seafarers or other interested parties.
If in compliance with any of the provisions of sub-clauses (2) to (5) of this Clause anything is done or not done, such shall not be deemed to be a deviation, but shall be considered as due fulfilment of the Contract of Carriage.
One manually operated call point shall be located at each exit. Manually operated call points shall be readily accessible in the corridors of each deck such that no part of the corridor is more than 20 m from a manually operated call point.
Alarms shall be maintained until they are accepted and the visual indications of individual alarms shall remain until the fault has been corrected, when the alarm system shall automatically reset to the normal operating condition.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of article 7, a servant or agent of the carrier is not entitled to the benefit of the limitation of liability provided for in article 6 if it is proved that the loss, damage or delay in delivery resulted from an act or omission of such servant or agent, done with the intent to cause such loss, damage or delay, or recklessly and with knowledge that such loss, damage or delay would probably result.
Welfare boards should include among their members representatives of shipowners' and seafarers' organizations, the competent authorities and, where appropriate, voluntary organizations and social bodies.
“Documentary shipper” means a person, other than the shipper, that accepts to be named as “shipper” in the transport document or electronic transport record.
The types of such work shall be determined by national laws or regulations or by the competent authority, after consultation with the shipowners and seafarers organization concerned, in accordance with relevant international standards.
In general, automatic starting, operational and control systems shall include provisions for manually overriding the automatic controls. Failure of any part of such systems shall not prevent the use of the manual override.
The Member whose flag the ship flies should, in effectively exercising its jurisdiction over social matters, satisfy itself that the shipowners' responsibilities concerning social security protection are met, including making the required contributions to social security schemes.
Each Member shall implement and enforce laws or regulations or other measures that it has adopted to fulfil its commitments under this Convention with respect to ships and seafarers under its jurisdiction.
All ships shall have a space or spaces on open deck to which the seafarers can have access when off duty, which are of adequate area having regard to the size of the ship and the number of seafarers on board.
Each emergency generating set arranged to be automatically started shall be equipped with starting devices approved by the Administration with a stored energy capability of at least three consecutive starts.
Under conditions as determined by the competent authority or through the appropriate machinery in each country, service off-articles should be counted as part of the period of service.
All these doors shall be of the sliding type and shall be so located as to have their sills as high as practicable.The hand gear for operating these doors from above the bulkhead deck shall be situated outside the spaces containing the machinery.
Any determinations made by a Member under paragraphs 3 or 5 or 6 of this Article shall be communicated to the Director-General of the International Labour Office, who shall notify the Members of the Organization.
Lift trunks shall be so fitted as to prevent the passage of smoke and flame from one 'tween-deck to another and shall be provided with means of closing so as to permit the control of draught and smoke.
A full inspection in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Standard shall be carried out prior to expiry of the interim certificate to enable issue of the full-term maritime labour certificate.
The person entitled to make a claim for the loss of goods may treat the goods as lost if they have not been delivered as required by article 4 within 60 consecutive days following the expiry of the time for delivery according to paragraph 2 of this article.
As between the Parties to this Protocol, denunciation by any of them of the Convention in accordance with Article 15 thereof, shall not be construed in any way as a denunciation of the Convention as amended by this Protocol.
The capacity of these generating sets shall be such that in the event of any one generating set being stopped it will still be possible to supply those services necessary to provide normal operational conditions of propulsion and safety.
Every ship of 150 gross tonnage and above certified to carry noxious liquid substances in bulk shall carry on board a shipboard marine pollution emergency plan for noxious liquid substances approved by the Administration.
Every rating forming part of an engine-room watch on a seagoing ship shall be required to demonstrate the competence to perform the marine engineering function at the support level, as specified in column 1 of table A-III/4.
Part II shall be drawn up by the shipowner and shall identify the measures adopted to ensure ongoing compliance with the national requirements between inspections and the measures proposed to ensure that there is continuous improvement.
The limitation period commences on the day on which the carrier has delivered the goods or part thereof or, in cases where no goods have been delivered, on the last day on which the goods should have been delivered.
The competent authority shall require that, prior to beginning work on a ship, seafarers hold a valid medical certificate attesting that they are medically fit to perform the duties they are to carry out at sea.
Gangway, cargo and fuelling ports fitted below the bulkhead deck shall be effectively closed and secured watertight before the ship leaves port, and shall be kept closed during navigation.
If this noise cannot be sufficiently reduced the source of excessive noise shall be suitably insulated or isolated or a refuge from noise shall be provided if the space is required to be manned.
When a seafarer is on call, such as when a machinery space is unattended, the seafarer shall have an adequate compensatory rest period if the normal period of rest is disturbed by call-outs to work.
Any Party having any objection to particular trials authorized in accordance with this regulation should communicate such objection to the Organization as early as practicable.
Where such an electric motor primarily intended for other services is arranged to power such an auxiliary steering gear, the requirement of paragraph 3 may be waived by the Administration if satisfied with the protection arrangement together with the requirements of regulation 29.5.1 and .2 and 29.7.3applicable to auxiliary steering gear.
Whenever a seafarer is detained for any reason in the territory of a Member, the authority should, if the seafarer so requests, immediately inform the flag State and the State of nationality of the seafarer.
Mess room facilities may be either common or separate. The decision in this respect should be taken after consultation with seafarers and shipowners representatives and subject to the approval of the competent authority.
Such measures could consist of their repatriation at no expense to themselves to the place of original engagement in their country of residence for the purpose of taking any leave earned during the voyage.
Safe access to cargo holds, cofferdams, ballast tanks, cargo tanks and other spaces in the cargo area shall be direct from the open deck and such as to ensure their complete inspection.
Each Member shall have national policies that encourage career and skill development and employment opportunities for seafarers, in order to provide the maritime sector with a stable and competent workforce.
Every candidate for certification shall be required to provide evidence of having achieved the required standard of competence in accordance with the methods for demonstrating competence and the criteria for evaluating competence specified in columns 3 and 4 of table A-III/4.
Nothing in this article affects the validity of an agreement relating to arbitration made by the parties after the claim under the contract of carriage by sea has arisen.
Each Member shall require, in respect of seafarers who work on ships that fly its flag, that shipowners who use seafarer recruitment and placement services that are based in countries or territories in which this Convention does not apply, ensure that those services conform to the requirements set out in the Code.
No similar symbol is shown for requirements of the 1974 SOLAS Convention which were modified by the 1978 SOLAS Protocol because, whilst, in respect of chapter I of the Convention,the requirements thereof have been replaced and abrogated by the 1988 SOLAS Protocol, as between Parties to the Protocol, for requirements in other chapters of the Convention, they have been superseded by SOLAS amendments subsequently adopted.
Where any alterations are made to a ship so as to materially affect the stability information supplied to the master, amended stability information shall be provided.
Subject to article 61, paragraph 2, compensation for loss of or damage to the goods due to delay shall be calculated in accordance with article 22 and liability for economic loss due to delay is limited to an amount equivalent to two and one-half times the freight payable on the goods delayed.
Subject to articles 71 and 72, no judicial proceedings under this Convention against the carrier or a maritime performing party may be instituted in a court not designated pursuant to articles 66 or 68.
Maximum astern speed is the speed which it is estimated the ship can attain at the designed maximum a stern power at the deepest seagoing draught.
Gas carrier is a cargo ship constructed or adapted and used for the carriage in bulk of any liquefied gas or other products of a flammable nature listed in chapter 19 of the International Gas Carrier Code, as defined in regulation VII/11.1.
During the watch, the course steered, position and speed shall be checked at sufficiently frequent intervals, using any available navigational aids necessary, to ensure that the ship follows the planned course.
In case of large lower holds in passenger ships, the Administration may require an increased double bottom height of not more than B/10 or 3 m, whichever is less, measured from the keel line.
The curriculum for the training referred to in Standard A4.3, paragraph 1(a), should be reviewed periodically and brought up to date in the light of development in types and sizes of ships and in their equipment, as well as changes in manning practices, nationality, language and the organization of work on board a ship.
Cash for Vessel's ordinary disbursements at the port of loading to be advanced by the Charterers, if required, at highest current rate of exchange, subject to two (2) per cent to cover insurance and other expenses.
Each Member shall ensure that seafarers on ships calling at a port in the Member's territory who allege a breach of the requirements of this Convention (including seafarers' rights) have the right to report such a complaint in order to facilitate a prompt and practical means of redress.
The means of operation, whether by power or by hand, of any power-operated sliding watertight door shall be capable of closing the door with the ship listed to 15° either way.
The extension need not be fitted directly above the bulkhead below provided it is located within the limits prescribed in paragraph 1 or 2 with the exception permitted by paragraph 7 and that the part of the deck which forms the step is made effectively weathertight.
All bilge pipes used in or under coal bunkers or fuel storage tanks or in boiler or machinery spaces,including spaces in which oil-settling tanks or oil fuel pumping units are situated, shall be of steel or other suitable material.
The relevant IMO Model Course(s) and resolution MSC.64(67), Recommendations on new and amended performance standards, may be of assistance in the preparation of courses.
The carrier shall during the period of its responsibility as defined in article 12, and subject to article 26, properly and carefully receive, load, handle, stow, carry, keep, care for, unload and deliver the goods.
Permanent approved gas tight lighting enclosures for illuminating cargo pump-rooms may be permitted in bulkheads and decks separating cargo pump-rooms and other spaces provided they are of adequate strength and the integrity and gas tightness of the bulkhead or deck is maintained.
The shipper is not liable for loss sustained by the carrier or the actual carrier, or for damage sustained by the ship, unless such loss or damage was caused by the fault or neglect of the shipper, his servants or agents.
Each Member shall require ships that fly its flag to provide financial security to ensure that seafarers are duly repatriated in accordance with the Code.
For the purpose of calculating which amount is the higher in accordance with paragraph 1(a) of this article, the following rules apply: Where a container, pallet or similar article of transport is used to consolidate goods, the package or other shipping units enumerated in the bill of lading, if issued, or otherwise in any other document evidencing the contract of carriage by sea, as packed in such article of transport are deemed packages or shipping units.
If more than one original of the negotiable transport document has been issued, and the number of originals is stated in that document, the surrender of one original will suffice and the other originals cease to have any effect or validity.
A report containing the results of the evaluation required by paragraph 2 shall be communicated to the Secretary-General in accordance with the format specified in section A-I/7 of the STCW Code.
Members which have ratified this Convention are not bound by the guidance concerned and, as indicated in the provisions in Title 5 on port State control, inspections would deal only with the relevant requirements of this Convention (Articles, Regulations and the Standards in Part A).
The defences and limits of liability provided for in this Convention shall apply in any action against the carrier in respect of loss or damage to goods covered by a contract of carriage whether the action be founded in contract or in tort.
The value of a national currency in terms of the Special Drawing Right of a Contracting State which is not a member of the International Monetary Fund is to be calculated in a manner determined by that State.
An amendment adopted in the framework of article 19 of the Constitution shall be binding only upon those Members of the Organization whose ratifications have been registered by the Director-General of the International Labour Office.
Seafarers should in principle have the right to take annual leave in the place with which they have a substantial connection, which would normally be the same as the place to which they are entitled to be repatriated.
A list of matters that must be inspected and found to meet national laws and regulations or other measures implementing the requirements of this Convention regarding the working and living conditions of seafarers on ships before a maritime labour certificate can be issued is found in Appendix A5-I.
If the carrier proves that he has complied with any special instructions given to him by the shipper respecting the animals and that, in the circumstances of the case, the loss, damage or delay in delivery could be attributed to such risks, it is presumed that the loss, damage or delay in delivery was so caused, unless there is proof that all or a part of the loss, damage or delay in delivery resulted from fault or neglect on the part of the carrier, his servants or agents.
“Transport document” means a document issued under a contract of carriage by the carrier that: (a) Evidences the carrier’s or a performing party’s receipt of goods under a contract of carriage; and (b) Evidences or contains a contract of carriage.
If a carrier is identified by name in the contract particulars, any other information in the transport document or electronic transport record relating to the identity of the carrier shall have no effect to the extent that it is inconsistent with that identification.
Specific precautions to be included shall consist of a listing of elements (i.e., closures, security of cargo, sounding of alarms, etc.) considered by the Administration to be vital to the survival of the ship,passengers and crew.
A certificate called a Certificate of Fitness for the Carriage of Liquefied Gases in Bulk, the model form of which is set out in the appendix to the Gas Carrier Code, should be issued after an initial or periodical survey to a gas carrier which complies with the relevant requirements of the Code.
Each Member shall require that records of seafarers daily hours of work or of their daily hours of rest be maintained to allow monitoring of compliance with paragraphs 5 to 11 inclusive of this Standard.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph 7, the Administration may permit some accesses within such bulkheads to be opened during the voyage but only for sufficient time to permit through passage and, if required, for the essential working of the ship.
At the discretion of a Party, endorsements may be incorporated in the format of the certificates being issued as provided for in section A-I/2 of the STCW Code.
Carrier Code, should be issued after an initial or periodical survey to a gas carrier which complies with the relevant requirements of the Code.
A current valid maritime labour certificate and declaration of maritime labour compliance, accompanied by an English-language translation where it is not in English, shall be carried on the ship and a copy shall be posted in a conspicuous place on board where it is available to the seafarers.
Seafarers are entitled to adequate compensation in the case of injury, loss or unemployment arising from the ships loss or foundering.
The value of the goods shall be fixed according to the commodity exchange price, or, if there be no such price, according to the current market price, or, if there be no commodity exchange price or current market price, by reference to the normal value of goods of the same kind and quality.
Accommodation and recreational and catering facilities should be located as far as practicable from the engines, steering gear rooms, deck winches, ventilation, heating and air-conditioning equipment and other noisy machinery and apparatus.
Each Member shall require that all ships that fly its flag have a sufficient number of seafarers on board to ensure that ships are operated safely, efficiently and with due regard to security.
As appropriate, consuls of maritime States and local representatives of foreign welfare organizations should, in accordance with national laws and regulations, be associated with the work of port, regional and national welfare boards.
The value of a national currency, in terms of the Special Drawing Right, of a Contracting State which is a member of the International Monetary Fund is to be calculated in accordance with the method of valuation applied by the International Monetary Fund in effect at the date in question for its operations and transactions.
For the purpose of paragraph 1(d) of this Standard, complaint means information submitted by a seafarer, a professional body, an association, a trade union or, generally, any person with an interest in the safety of the ship, including an interest in safety or health hazards to seafarers on board.
The Administration may, until 1 September 1986, accept the fitting of a steering gear which has a proven record of reliability but does not comply with the requirements of paragraph 6.1.3 for a hydraulic system.
The access to at least one end of each such tunnel or trunkway, if used as a passage at sea, shall be through a trunk extending watertight to a height sufficient to permit access above the bulkhead deck.
A vessel shall not cross a narrow channel or fairway if such crossing impedes the passage of a vessel which can safely navigate only within such channel or fairway.
Machinery spaces are machinery spaces of category A and other spaces containing propulsion machinery, boilers, oil fuel units, steam and internal combustion engines, generators and major electrical machinery, oil filling stations, refrigerating, stabilizing, ventilation and air conditioning machinery, and similar spaces, and trunks to such spaces.
Any Contracting State which has made a declaration under paragraph (1) of this Article may at any time thereafter declare by notification given to the Belgian Government that the Protocol shall cease to extend to such territory.
The Code may be amended either by the procedure set out in Article XIV or, unless expressly provided otherwise, in accordance with the procedure set out in the present Article.
When the shipper is relieved of part of its liability pursuant to this article, the shipper is liable only for that part of the loss or damage that is attributable to its fault or to the fault of any person referred to in article 34.
Watertight doors located below the bulkhead deck having a maximum clear opening width of more than 1.2 m shall be kept closed when the ship is at sea, except for limited periods when absolutely necessary as determined by the Administration.
In the event of doubt as to whether any categories of persons are to be regarded as seafarers for the purpose of this Convention, the question shall be determined by the competent authority in each Member after consultation with the shipowners and seafarers organizations concerned with this question.
If in any doubt as to the pilots actions or intentions, the officer in charge of the navigational watch shall seek clarification from the pilot and, if doubt still exists, shall notify the master immediately and take whatever action is necessary before the master arrives.
Earthed distribution systems shall not be used in a tanker. The Administration may exceptionally permit in a tanker the earthing of the neutral for alternating current power networks of 3,000 V (line toline) and over, provided that any possible resulting current does not flow directly through any of the dangerous spaces.
The emergency generator and its prime mover and any emergency accumulator battery shall be so designed and arranged as to ensure that they will function at full rated power when the ship is upright and when inclined at any angle of list up to 22.5° or when inclined up to 10° either in the fore or aft direction, or is in any combination of angles within those limits.
Every oil tanker operating with dedicated clean ballast tanks in accordance with the provisions of regulation 13(10) of Annex I of MARPOL 73/78 shall be provided with a Dedicated Clean Ballast Tank Operation Manual detailing the system and specifying operational procedures.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph 3, the Administration may permit some accesses to be opened during the voyage, but only for a period sufficient to permit through passage and, if required, for the essential working of the ship.
Each Member shall ensure that all seafarers and, to the extent provided for in its national law, their dependants have access to social security protection in accordance with the Code without prejudice however to any more favourable conditions referred to in paragraph 8 of article 19 of the Constitution.
In cargo ships the part of the ramp which is more than 2.3 m above the bulkhead deck may extend forward of the limit specified in paragraph 1 or 2. Ramps not meeting the above requirements shall be disregarded as an extension of the collision bulkhead.
The present Convention shall enter into force twelve months after the date on which not less than twenty-five States, the combined merchant fleets of which constitute not less than fifty per cent of the gross tonnage of the world's merchant shipping, have become parties to it in accordance with article IX.
In all ro—ro passenger ships, the master or the designated officer shall ensure that, without the expressed consent of the master or the designated officer, no passengers are allowed access to an enclosed ro-ro deck when the ship is under way.
Members should cooperate with each other to the maximum extent possible in the adoption of internationally agreed guidelines on inspection policies, especially those relating to the circumstances warranting the detention of a ship.
Goods that are delivered pursuant to an instruction in accordance with article 52, paragraph 1, are deemed to be delivered at the place of destination, and the provisions of chapter 9 relating to such delivery apply to such goods.
If notice of such withdrawal is received by the Director-General after the amendment has entered into force, the amendment shall enter into force for the Member six months after the date on which the notice was registered.
This Convention shall come into force 12 months after the date on which there have been registered ratifications by at least 30 Members with a total share in the world gross tonnage of ships of 33 per cent.
Each Party shall ensure that the education and training objectives and related standards of competence to be achieved are clearly defined and that the levels of knowledge, understanding and skills appropriate to the examinations and assessments required under the Convention are identified.
Certificates issued in accordance with the provisions of regulations V/1-1 and V/1-2 to masters and officers shall only be issued by an Administration.
Where a provision of the Convention is implemented through substantial equivalence as provided under Article VI, paragraph 3, this provision should be identified and a concise explanation should be provided.
Every ship when in a port of another Contracting Government is subject to control by officers duly authorized by such Government in so far as this control is directed towards verifying that the certificates issued under regulation 12 or regulation 13 are valid.
The competent authority shall require frequent inspections to be carried out on board ships, by or under the authority of the master, to ensure that seafarer accommodation is clean, decently habitable and maintained in a good state of repair.
The central operating console at the navigation bridge shall be provided with a diagram showing the location of each door, with visual indicators to show whether each door is open or closed.
The system of ventilation for sleeping rooms and mess rooms should be controlled so as to maintain the air in a satisfactory condition and to ensure a sufficiency of air movement in all conditions of weather and climate.
Every candidate for certification shall be required to provide evidence of having achieved the required standard of competence tabulated in columns 3 and 4 of table A-III/6.
If the electrical power is normally supplied by more than one generator simultaneously in parallel operation, provision shall be made, for instance by load shedding, to ensure that, in case of loss of one of these generating sets, the remaining ones are kept in operation without overload to permit propulsion and steering, and to ensure the safety of the ship.
Such exceptions shall, as far as possible, follow the provisions of this Standard but may take account of more frequent or longer leave periods or the granting of compensatory leave for watchkeeping seafarers or seafarers working on board ships on short voyages.
An interim maritime labour certificate may be issued for a period not exceeding six months by the competent authority or a recognized organization duly authorized for this purpose.
The detection system shall initiate audible and visual alarms distinct in both respects from the alarms of any other system not indicating fire, insufficient places to ensure that the alarms are heard and observed on the navigation bridge and by a responsible engineer officer.
External boundaries which are required in regulation 11.2 to be of steel or other equivalent material may be pierced for the fitting of windows and sidescuttles provided that there is no requirement for such boundaries of cargo ships to have "A" class integrity.
The regional economic integration organization shall in that case have the rights and obligations of a Contracting State, to the extent that that organization has competence over matters governed by this Convention.
However, in such a case, at the petition of the defendant, the claimant must remove the action, at his choice, to one of the jurisdictions referred to in paragraph 1 of this article for the determination of the claim, but before such removal the defendant must furnish security sufficient to ensure payment of any judgement that may subsequently be awarded to the claimant in the action.
This evaluation shall include all changes to national regulations and procedures in compliance with the amendments to the Convention and STCW Code, with dates of entry into force later than the date information was communicated to the Secretary-General.
The number of openings in watertight subdivisions is to be kept to a minimum compatible with the design and proper working of the ship. Where penetrations of watertight bulkheads and internal decks are necessary for access, piping, ventilation, electrical cables, etc., arrangements are to be made to maintain the watertight integrity.
An Administration which has authorized a trial shall respect objections received from other Parties relating to such trial by directing ships entitled to fly its flag not to engage in a trial while navigating in the waters of a coastal State which has communicated its objection to the Organization.
The booklet shall be endorsed by the Administration or on its behalf to indicate that SOLAS regulations XII/4, 5, 6 and 7, as appropriate, are complied with.
In every ship means shall be provided to prevent over pressure in any part of compressed air systems and wherever water jackets or casings of air compressors and coolers might be subjected to dangerous over pressure due to leakage into them from air pressure parts.
Such remote control shall be performed by a single control device for each independent propeller, with automatic performance of all associated services, including, where necessary, means of preventing overload of the propulsion machinery.
For this purpose, where the pipe is at any part situated nearer the side of the ship than one fifth of the breadth of the ship (as defined in regulation 2 and measured at right angles to the centre line at the level of the deepest subdivision load line), or is in a duct keel, a non-return valve shall be fitted to the pipe in the compartment containing the open end.
Any such inspection shall be limited to verifying that the matter inspected is in conformity with the relevant requirements set out in the Articles and Regulations of this Convention and in Part A only of the Code.
Each Member shall effectively exercise its jurisdiction and control over ships that fly its flag by establishing a system for ensuring compliance with the requirements of this Convention, including regular inspections, reporting, monitoring and legal proceedings under the applicable laws.
Where main or auxiliary machinery including pressure vessels or any parts of such machinery are subject to internal pressure and may be subject to dangerous overpressure, means shall be provided where practicable to protect against such excessive pressure.
The calculation mentioned in the last sentence of paragraph 1 and the conversion mentioned in paragraph 3 of this article is to be made in such a manner as to express in the national currency of the Contracting State as far as possible the same real value for the amounts in article 6 as is expressed there in units of account.
The provisions of regulation I/5 shall not be interpreted as preventing the allocation of tasks for training under supervision or in cases of force majeure.
An indicator shall be mounted in a suitable place on the main switchboard or in the machinery control room to indicate when the batteries constituting either the emergency source of electrical power or the transitional source of electrical power referred to in paragraph 3.2 or 4 are being discharged.
Certain watertight doors may be permitted to remain open during navigation only if considered absolutely necessary; that is, being open is determined essential to the safe and effective operation of the ship's machinery or to permit passengers normally unrestricted access throughout the passenger area.
The arrangement and efficiency of the means for closing any opening in the shell plating shall be consistent with its intended purpose and the position in which it is fitted and generally to the satisfaction of the Administration.
Alternatively, air pipes from tanks other than oil tanks may discharge through the side of the superstructure. The provisions of this paragraph are without prejudice to the provisions of the International Convention on Load Lines in force.
In ro—ro passenger ships, cabling for emergency alarms and public address systems installed on or after 1 July 1998 shall be approved by the Administration having regard to the recommendations developed by the Organization.
Administrations may use a format different from the format given in section A-I/2 of the STCW Code, provided that, as a minimum, the required information is provided in Roman characters and Arabic figures, taking into account the variations permitted under section A-I/2.
The Charterers shall indemnify the Owners against all consequences or liabilities that may arise from the signing of bills of lading as presented to the extent that the terms or contents of such bills of lading impose or result in the imposition of more onerous liabilities upon the Owners than those assumed by the Owners under this Charter Party.
The minimum knowledge, understanding and proficiency required of an able seafarer engine serving on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW propulsion power or more is listed in column 2 of table A-III/5.
In the case of a complaint under paragraph 1(d) of this Standard, the inspection shall generally be limited to matters within the scope of the complaint, although a complaint, or its investigation, may provide clear grounds for a detailed inspection in accordance with paragraph 1(b) of this Standard.
A denunciation shall take effect one year, or such longer period as may be specified in the instrumentof denunciation, after its receipt by the Secretary-General of the Organization.
The carrier is entitled to obtain security from the controlling party for the amount of additional expense, loss or damage that the carrier reasonably expects will arise in connection with the execution of an instruction pursuant to this article. The carrier may refuse to carry out the instructions if no such security is provided.
In the case of an investigation pursuant to a major incident, the report shall be submitted to the competent authority as soon as practicable, but not later than one month following the conclusion of the investigation.
Representatives of shipowners and seafarers organizations should participate, with or without other persons or authorities, in the operation of such machinery.
An amendment shall be deemed to have been accepted on the date when there have been registered ratifications, of the amendment or of the Convention as amended, as the case may be, by at least 30 Members with a total share in the world gross tonnage of ships of at least 33 per cent.
Special consideration shall be given to the design, construction and installation of propulsion machinery systems so that any mode of their vibrations shall not cause undue stresses in this machinery in the normal operating ranges.
Any obligation on the shipowner to provide protective equipment or other accident prevention safeguards should, in general, be accompanied by provision requiring their use by seafarers and by a requirement for seafarers to comply with the relevant accident prevention and health protection measures.
All discharge pipes from starting air compressors shall lead directly to the starting air receivers, and all starting pipes from the air receivers to main or auxiliary engines shall be entirely separate from the compressor discharge pipe system.
Seafarers have a right to be repatriated at no cost to themselves in the circumstances and under the conditions specified in the Code.
Each Member which has national seafarers, non-national seafarers or both serving on ships that fly its flag should provide the social security protection in the Convention as applicable, and should periodically review the branches of social security protection in Standard A4.5, paragraph 1, with a view to identifying any additional branches appropriate for the seafarers concerned.
“Electronic communication” means information generated, sent, received or stored by electronic, optical, digital or similar means with the result that the information communicated is accessible so as to be usable for subsequent reference.
National laws or regulations may exempt the shipowner from liability to defray the expense of medical care and board and lodging and burial expenses in so far as such liability is assumed by the public authorities.
In general, these accesses should be arranged diagonally, for example one access near the forward bulkhead on the port side, the other one near the aft bulkhead on the starboard side.
In the case of any actual or apprehended loss or damage, the parties to the dispute shall give all reasonable facilities to each other for inspecting and tallying the goods and shall provide access to records and documents relevant to the carriage of the goods.
Each Member shall adopt laws and regulations establishing minimum notice period to be given by the seafarers and shipowners for the early termination of a seafarers employment agreement.
In the event of doubt as to whether this Convention applies to a ship or particular category of ships, the question shall be determined by the competent authority in each Member after consultation with the shipowners and seafarers organizations concerned.
Administrations shall take account of the danger posed by fatigue of seafarers, especially those whose duties involve the safe and secure operation of a ship.
Provision shall be made to prevent any deep tank having bilge and ballast connections being inadvertently flooded from the sea when containing cargo, or being discharged through a bilge pump when containing water ballast.
When a container is packed or a vehicle is loaded by the shipper, the shipper shall properly and carefully stow, lash and secure the contents in or on the container or vehicle, and in such a way that they will not cause harm to persons or property.
Every steam pipe and every fitting connected thereto through which steam may pass shall be so designed, constructed and installed as to withstand the maximum working stresses to which it may be subjected.
In the case of intended fraud referred to in paragraph 3 of this article the carrier is liable, without the benefit of the limitation of liability provided for in this Convention, for the loss incurred by a third party, including a consignee, because he has acted in reliance on the description of the goods in the bill of lading.
If the period of validity of a certificate expires in the course of a voyage, the certificate shall continue in force until the next port of call where the seafarer can obtain a medical certificate from a qualified medical practitioner, provided that the period shall not exceed three months.
To the extent that national laws or regulations permit, the number of seafarers on such registers or lists should be periodically reviewed so as to achieve levels adapted to the needs of the maritime industry.
n efficient bilge pumping system shall be provided, capable of pumping from and draining any watertight compartment other than a space permanently appropriated for the carriage of fresh water, water ballast, oil fuel or liquid cargo and for which other efficient means of pumping are provided, under all practical conditions.
Information should be disseminated among seafarers concerning facilities open to the general public in ports of call, particularly transport, welfare, entertainment and educational facilities and places of worship, as well as facilities provided specifically for seafarers.
All inspectors should have a clear understanding of the circumstances in which an inspection should be carried out, the scope of the inspection to be carried out in the various circumstances referred to and the general method of inspections.
In a passenger ship, distribution systems shall be so arranged that fire in any main vertical zone as is defined in regulation II-2/3.9* will not interfere with services essential for safety in any other such zone.
The total amount payable pursuant to this article and article 59, paragraph 1, may not exceed the limit that would be established pursuant to article 59, paragraph 1, in respect of the total loss of the goods concerned.
Registered owner means the person or persons registered as the owner of the ship or，in the absence of registration，the person or persons owning the ship．
The Director-General of the International Labour Office shall notify all Members of the International Labour Organization of the registration of all ratifications, acceptances and denunciations under this Convention.
Where trunkways or tunnels for access from crew accommodation to the stokehold, for piping, or for any other purpose are carried through watertight bulkheads, they shall be watertight and in accordance with the requirements of regulation 16-1.
The education and training required by paragraph 2.3 of regulation III/6 shall include training in electronic and electrical workshop skills relevant to the duties of electro-technical officer.
A vessel proceeding along the course of a narrow channel or fairway shall keep as near to the outer limit of the channel or fairway which lies on her starboard side as is safe and practicable.
Means of control shall be provided for permitting the release of smoke and such controls shall be located outside the space concerned so that they will not be cut off in the event of fire in the space they serve.
Where automatic starting is not required, manual starting is permissible, such as manual cranking,inertia starters, manually charged hydraulic accumulators, or powder charge cartridges, where they can be demonstrated as being effective.
Each Member shall require that payments due to seafarers working on ships that fly its flag are made at no greater than monthly intervals and in accordance with any applicable collective agreement.
The requirements of the International Convention on Load Lines in force shall apply to discharges led through the shell plating from spaces above the bulkhead deck of passenger ships and the freeboard deck of cargo ships.
National laws and regulations shall not prejudice any right of the shipowner to recover the cost of repatriation under third-party contractual arrangements.
In order to exercise its right of control, the controlling party shall produce the document and properly identify itself. If more than one original of the document was issued, all originals shall be produced, failing which the right of control cannot be exercised.
The procedures to be established under Standard A4.5, paragraph 9, should be designed to cover all disputes relevant to the claims of the seafarers concerned, irrespective of the manner in which the coverage is provided.
Every seafarer who is designated to perform security duties, including anti-piracy and anti-armed-robbery-related activities, shall be required to demonstrate competence to undertake the tasks, duties and responsibilities listed in column 1 of table A-VI/6-2.
Interior stairways, lifts, totally enclosed emergency escape trunks, and escalators (other than those wholly contained within the machinery spaces) for passengers and crew and enclosures thereto.
Where an Administration which has recognized a certificate withdraws its endorsement of recognition for disciplinary reasons, the Administration shall inform the Party that issued the certificate of the circumstances.
After entry into force of an amendment a Contracting State which has accepted the amendment is entitled to apply the Convention as amended in its relations with Contracting States which have not within six months after the adoption of the amendment notified the depositary that they are not bound by the amendment.
The Contracting Parties may give effect to this Protocol either by giving it the force of law or by including in their national legislation in a form appropriate to that legislation the rules adopted under this Protocol.
Each Party shall also ensure that an evaluation is periodically undertaken, in accordance with the provisions of section A-I/8 of the STCW Code, by qualified persons who are not themselves involved in the activities concerned.
Without prejudice to article 61, the aggregate liability of all such persons shall not exceed the overall limits of liability under this Convention.
The relieving officer of the engineering watch shall ensure that the members of the relieving engineering watch are apparently fully capable of performing their duties effectively.
When an exemption is granted to a ship under and in accordance with the provisions of SOLAS 1974, a certificate called an Exemption Certificate shall be issued in addition to the certificates listed above.
A denunciation shall take effect one year, or such longer period as may be specified in the instrument of denunciation, after its receipt by the Secretary-General of the Organization.
In paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article, reference to the carrier or to the consignee means, in addition to the carrier or the consignee, the servants or agents, respectively of the carrier or the consignee.
A fixed fire detection and fire alarm system and a sample extraction smoke detection system required in this regulation and other regulations in this part shall be of an approved type and comply with the Fire Safety Systems Code.
Each Party shall ensure that instructors, supervisors and assessors are appropriately qualified for the particular types and levels of training or assessment of competence of seafarers either on board or ashore, as required under the Convention, in accordance with the provisions of this section.
The inboard gland shall be located with in a watertight space of such volume that, if flooded, the bulkhead deck will not be submerged.
The regional economic integration organization shall promptly notify the depositary of any changes to the distribution of competence, including new transfers of competence, specified in the declaration pursuant to this paragraph.
If, having duly considered the relevant Guidelines, a Member decides to provide for different arrangements which ensure the proper storage, use and maintenance of the contents of the medicine chest, to take the example given above, as required by the Standard in Part A, then that is acceptable.
A standard fire test is a test in which specimens of the relevant bulkheads or decks are exposed in a test furnace to temperatures corresponding approximately to the standard time—temperature curve in accordance with the test method specified in the Fire Test Procedures Code.
Each Party shall establish standards of medical fitness for seafarers and procedures for the issue of a medical certificate in accordance with the provisions of this regulation and of section A-I/9 of the STCW Code.
Moving parts penetrating the shell plating below the deepest subdivision draught shall be fitted with a watertight sealing arrangement acceptable to the Administration. 
A certificate called a Cargo Ship Safety Certificate may be issued after survey to a cargo ship which complies with the relevant requirements of chapters II-1, II-2, III, IV and V and other relevant requirements of SOLAS 1974 as modified by the 1988 SOLAS Protocol, as an alternative to the above cargo ship safety certificates.
The basic pay or wages for a calendar month of service for an able seafarer should be no less than the amount periodically set by the Joint Maritime Commission or another body authorized by the Governing Body of the International Labour Office.
For seafarers employed for periods shorter than one year or in the event of termination of the employment relationship, entitlement to leave should be calculated on a pro-rate bases.
The electrical power required for power-operated sliding watertight doors shall be supplied from the emergency switchboard either directly or by a dedicated distribution board situated above the bulkhead deck.
Every candidate for a certificate of proficiency in fast rescue boats shall be required to demonstrate competence to undertake the tasks, duties and responsibilities listed in column 1 of table A-VI/2-2.
Where bow doors are fitted and a sloping loading ramp forms part of the extension of the collision bulkhead above the bulkhead deck, the ramp shall be weather tight over its complete length.
The location of the controls of any valve serving a sea inlet, a discharge below the waterline or a bilge injection system shall be so sited as to allow adequate time for operation in case of influx of water to the space, having regard to the time likely to be required in order to reach and operate such controls.
The responsibility of the carrier for the goods under this Convention covers the period during which the carrier is in charge of the goods at the port of loading, during the carriage and at the port of discharge.
Primary deck coverings, if applied within accommodation and service spaces and control stations, shall be of approved material which will not give rise to smoke or toxic or explosive hazards at elevated temperatures, this being determined in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code.
Internal combustion engines of a cylinder diameter of 200 mm or a crankcase volume of 0.6 m and3above shall be provided with crankcase explosion relief valves of a suitable type with sufficient relief area.
It shall publish an annual report on inspection activities within a reasonable time, not exceeding six months, after the end of the year.
Every ship to which Annex II of MARPOL 73/78 applies shall be provided with a Cargo Record Book, whether as part of the ship’s official log book or otherwise, in the form specified in appendix IV to the Annex.
The Vessel has liberty to call at any port or ports in any order, for any purpose, to sail without pilots, to tow and/or assist Vessels in all situations, and also to deviate for the purpose of saving life and/or property.
If the master considers it necessary, a continuous navigational watch shall be maintained at anchor.
The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article apply correspondingly in respect of States parties to the Protocol signed on 23 February 1968 to amend the International Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules relating to Bills of Lading signed at Brussels on 25 August 1924.
Each Member which ratifies this Convention undertakes to give complete effect to its provisions in the manner set out in Article VI in order to secure the right of all seafarers to decent employment.
The requirements of regulations 4.5.10.1.1 and 4.5.10.1.4 and a system for continuous monitoring of the concentration of hydrocarbon gases shall be fitted on all tankers constructed before 1 July 2002 by the date of the first scheduled dry-docking after 1 July 2002, but not later than 1 July 2005.
The aggregate of the amounts recoverable from the carrier, and such servants and agents, shall in no case exceed the limit provided for in this Convention.
Vapour barriers and adhesives used in conjunction will insulation, as well as the insulation of pipe fittings for cold service systems, need not be of non-combustible materials, but they shall be kept to the minimum quantity practicable and their exposed surfaces shall have low flame-spread characteristics.
When the carrier is relieved of part of its liability pursuant to this article, the carrier is liable only for that part of the loss, damage or delay that is attributable to the event or circumstance for which it is liable pursuant to this article.
The master and the pilot shall exchange information regarding navigation procedures, local conditions and the ships characteristics.
Unless caused by negligence of the stevedores, time lost by breakdown of the Vessel's cargo handling gear or motive power - pro rata the total number of cranes/winches required at that time for the loading/discharging of cargo under this Charter Party - shall not count as laytime or time on demurrage.
Machinery spaces of category A shall be adequately ventilated so as to ensure that when machinery or boilers therein are operating at full power in all weather conditions including heavy weather, an adequate supply of air is maintained to the spaces for the safety and comfort of personnel and the operation of the machinery.
The competent authority should work with relevant agencies and organizations to develop educational materials and on-board information, concerning methods of ensuring proper food supply and catering services.
General precautions to be included shall consist of a listing of equipment, conditions, and operational procedures considered by the Administration to be necessary to maintain watertight integrity under normal ship operations.
Passenger ships to which chapter I of the Convention applies shall have on board a plan for cooperation with appropriate search and rescue services in event of an emergency.
The largest scale chart on board, suitable for the area and corrected with the latest available information, shall be used.Fixes shall be taken at frequent intervals, and shall be carried out by more than one method whenever circumstances allow.
The competent authority should provide for the recognition, where appropriate, of certificates of qualification as ships' cooks issued by other Members, which have ratified this Convention or the Certification of Ships' Cooks Convention, 1946 (No. 69), or other approved body.
The Administration may permit relaxation in the watertightness of openings above the freeboard deck, provided that it is demonstrated that any progressive flooding can be easily controlled and that the safety of the ship is not impaired.
The level of knowledge of the subjects listed in column 2 of table A-IV/2 shall be sufficient for the candidate to carry out his duties.
The level of knowledge of the subjects listed in column 2 of table A-VI/2-1 shall be sufficient to enable the candidate to launch and take charge of a survival craft or rescue boat in emergency situations.
Other closing appliances which are kept permanently closed at sea to ensure the watertight integrity of internal openings shall be provided with a notice which is to be affixed to each such closing appliance to the effect that it is to be kept closed.
States, Members of the United Nations or Members of the specialized agencies of the United Nations, not represented at the twelfth session of the Diplomatic Conference on Maritime Law, may accede to this Protocol.
Where a charter-party contains a provision that disputes arising thereunder shall be referred to arbitration and a bill of lading issued pursuant to the charter-party does not contain a special annotation providing that such provision shall be binding upon the holder of the bill of lading, the carrier may not invoke such provision as against a holder having acquired the bill of lading in good faith.
Electric power, control, indication and alarm circuits shall be protected against fault in such a way that a failure in one door circuit will not cause a failure in any other door circuit. Short circuits or other faults in the alarm or indicator circuits of a door shall not result in a loss of power operation of that door.
All toilets should be of an approved pattern and provided with an ample flush of water or with some other suitable flushing means, such as air, which are available at all times and independently controllable.
Every seafarer holding a certificate issued under the provisions of the Convention, who is serving at sea, shall also hold a valid medical certificate issued in accordance with the provisions of this regulation and of section A-I/9 of the STCW Code.
No reports or recommendations of the Organization based upon such information shall disclose the identity or nationality of the ships concerned or in any manner fix or imply responsibility upon any ship or person.
When a distribution system, whether primary or secondary, for power, heating or lighting, with no connection to earth is used, a device capable of continuously monitoring the insulation level to earth and of giving an audible or visual indication of abnormally low insulation values shall be provided.
Except as expressly provided otherwise, this Convention applies to all ships, whether publicly or privately owned, ordinarily engaged in commercial activities, other than ships engaged in fishing or in similar pursuits and ships of traditional build such as dhows and junks. This Convention does not apply to warships or naval auxiliaries.
If the demurrage is not paid at the expiration of this time limit and if the vessel is in or at the loading port, the Owners are entitled at any time to terminate the Charter Party and claim damages for any losses caused thereby.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph 3, the Administration may authorize that particular doors may be opened at the discretion of the master, if necessary for the operation of the ship and provided that the safety of the ship is not impaired.
Whatever may be the position of the subdivision load line marks, a ship shall in no case be loaded so as to submerge the load line mark appropriate to the season and locality as determined in accordance with the International Convention on Load Lines in force.
The emergency source of electrical power may be used for the purpose of starting from a dead ship condition if its capability either alone or combined with that of any other source of electrical power is sufficient to provide at the same time those services required to be supplied by regulations 42.2.1 to 42.2.3 or 43.2.1 to 43.2.4.
Any instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession deposited after the entry into force of an amendment to this Convention is deemed to apply to the Convention as amended.
A copy shall be made available in accordance with national laws and regulations, upon request, to seafarers, flag State inspectors, authorized officers in port States, and shipowners' and seafarers' representatives.
If, at any time, the officer in charge of the navigational watch is to be relieved when a manoeuvre or other action to avoid any hazard is taking place, the relief of that officer shall be deferred until such action has been completed.
If only one intermediate inspection is carried out and the period of validity of the certificate is five years, it shall take place between the second and third anniversary dates of the certificate.
If the carrier and one or more maritime performing parties are liable for the loss of, damage to, or delay in delivery of the goods, their liability is joint and several but only up to the limits provided for under this Convention.
The arrangements for the venting of vapours displaced from the cargo tanks during loading and ballasting shall comply with paragraph 5.3 and regulation 11.6 and shall consist of either one or more mast risers, or a number of high-velocity vents.
All suitable measures should be taken by the competent authorities to make known to shipowners and to seafarers entering port any special laws and customs, the contravention of which may jeopardize their freedom.
In determining the national standards, each Member shall take account of the danger posed by the fatigue of seafarers, especially those whose duties involve navigational safety and the safe and secure operation of the ship.
Every oil tanker to which regulation 25 of Annex I of MARPOL 73/78 applies shall be provided in an approved form with information relative to loading and distribution of cargo necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this regulation and data on the ability of the ship to comply with damage stability criteria as determined by this regulation.
These accommodation facilities should be open to all seafarers, irrespective of nationality, race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion or social origin and irrespective of the flag State of the ship on which they are employed or engaged or work.
The level of knowledge of the material listed in column 2 of table A-III/1 shall be sufficient for engineer officers to carry out their watchkeeping duties.
In the case of unusual bottom arrangements in a passenger ship or a cargo ship, it shall be demonstrated that the ship is capable of withstanding bottom damages as specified in paragraph 8.
Automatic ventilating sidescuttles shall not be fitted in the shell plating below the bulkhead deck of passenger ships and the freeboard deck of cargo ships without the special sanction of the Administration.
Every candidate for certification shall be required to provide evidence of having achieved the required standard of competence in accordance with the methods for demonstrating competence and criteria for evaluating competence tabulated in columns 3 and 4 of table A-II/2.
Where a valve with positive means of closing is fitted, the operating position above the bulkhead deck shall always be readily accessible and means shall be provided for indicating whether the valve is open or closed.
The level of knowledge of the subjects listed in column 2 of table A-VI/5 shall be sufficient to enable the candidate to act as the designated ship security officer.
This Regulation also applies to any ship that flies the flag of a Member and is not covered by paragraph 1 of this Regulation, at the request of the shipowner to the Member concerned.
When the machinery spaces are in the manned condition, the officer in charge of the engineering watch shall at all times be readily capable of operating the propulsion equipment in response to needs for changes in direction or speed.
A Party may afford a ship which is entitled to fly its flag the benefits of the near-coastal voyage provisions of the Convention when it is regularly engaged off the coast of a non-Party on near-coastal voyages as defined by the Party.
These regulations shall not prevent an Administration from authorizing ships entitled to fly its flag to participate in trials.
In case of ships to which damage stability requirements of part B-l apply, damage stability information shall provide the master with a simple and easily understandable way of assessing the ship's survivability in all damage cases involving a compartment or group of compartments.
The carrier is liable for loss of or damage to the goods or delay in delivery caused by fire, if the claimant proves that the fire arose from fault or neglect on the part of the carrier, his servants or agents; for such loss, damage or delay in delivery which is proved by the claimant to have resulted from the fault or neglect of the carrier, his servants or agents, in taking all measures that could reasonably be required to put out the fire and avoid or mitigate its consequences.
Without prejudice to the principle of free collective bargaining, each Member should, after consulting representative shipowners and seafarers organizations, establish procedures for determining minimum wages for seafarers.
If during discharging the Master for fear of the Vessel being frozen in deems it advisable to leave, he has liberty to do so with what cargo he has on board and to proceed to the nearest accessible port where she can safely discharge.
The period referred to in paragraph 8(b) of this Article shall not go beyond one year from the date of entry into force of the amendment or beyond any longer period determined by the Conference at the time of approval of the amendment.
When using ECDIS, appropriate usage code (scale) electronic navigational charts shall be used and the ships position shall be checked by an independent means of position fixing at appropriate intervals.
However, where deemed necessary, the Administration may permit main cargo control stations,control stations, accommodation and service spaces forward of the cargo tanks, slop tanks and spaces which isolate cargo and slop tanks from machinery spaces, but not necessarily forward of oil fuel bunker tanks or ballast tanks.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 1.2 and 1.3, all accesses that lead to spaces below the bulkhead deck shall have a lowest point which is not less than 2.5 m above the bulkhead deck.
In the damaged condition, the head of water is to be considered in the worst situation at equilibrium, including intermediate stages of flooding.
The competent authority shall require that shipowners conducting risk evaluation in relation to management of occupational safety and health refer to appropriate statistical information from their ships and from general statistics provided by the competent authority.
The cargo shall be brought into the holds, loaded, stowed and/or trimmed, tallied, lashed and/or secured and taken from the holds and discharged by the Charterers, free of any risk, liability and expense whatsoever to the Owners.
The requirements in the Code implementing this Regulation which relate to ship construction and equipment apply only to ships constructed on or after the date when this Convention comes into force for the Member concerned.
When in a ship of less than 1,600 gross tonnage an auxiliary steering gear which is required by regulation 29.4.3 to be operated by power is not electrically powered or is powered by an electric motor primarily intended for other services, the main steering gear may be fed by one circuit from the main switchboard.
Any dispute between two or more Contracting Parties concerning the interpretation or application of the Convention which cannot be settled through negotiation, shall, at the request of one of them, be submitted to arbitration.
Each oil-fired boiler which is intended to operate without manual supervision shall have safety arrangements which shut off the fuel supply and give an alarm in the case of low water level, air supply failure or flame failure.
Sidescuttles, gangway, cargo and fuelling ports and other means for closing openings in the shell plating above the bulkhead deck shall be of efficient design and construction and of sufficient strength having regard to the spaces in which they are fitted and their positions relative to the deepest subdivision draught.
The table referred to in paragraph 10 of this Standard shall be established in a standardized format in the working language or languages of the ship and in English.
The Owners shall have a lien on the cargo and on all sub-freights payable in respect of the cargo, for freight, deadfreight, demurrage, claims for damages and for all other amounts due under this Charter Party including costs of recovering same.
Tanks less than 35 m in length shall be served by at least one_access hatchway and ladder. When a tank is subdivided by one or more swash bulkheads or similar obstructions which do not allow ready means of access to the other parts of the tank, at least two hatchways and ladders shall be fitted.
Reporting and investigation of occupational safety and health matters shall be designed to ensure the protection of seafarers' personal data, and shall take account of the guidance provided by the International Labour Organization on this matter.
Every oil tanker operating with crude oil washing systems shall be provided with an Operations and Equipment Manual detailing the system and equipment and specifying operational procedures.
Each Member shall ensure that ships that fly its flag provide and maintain decent accommodations and recreational facilities for seafarers working or living on board, or both, consistent with promoting the seafarers health and wellbeing.
When an inspection is conducted or when measures are taken under this Standard, all reasonable efforts shall be made to avoid a ship being unreasonably detained or delayed.
If the ship is in a port of another Contracting Government, the master or owner shall also report immediately to the appropriate authorities of the port State and the nominated surveyor or recognized organization shall ascertain that such a report has been made.
Such orders to be given within 48 hours after the Master or the Owners have given notice to the Charterers of the strike or lock-out affecting the discharge.
This denunciation shall take effect one year after the date on which notification thereof has been received by the Belgian Government; it also shall apply to the Convention.
Unless specified otherwise in the Convention, such implementation may be achieved through national laws or regulations, through applicable collective bargaining agreements or through other measures or in practice.
An amendment to the Code may be proposed to the Director-General of the International Labour Office by the Government of any Member of the Organization or by the group of Shipowner representatives or the group of Seafarer representatives who have been appointed to the Committee referred to in Article XIII.
A main electric lighting system which shall provide illumination throughout those parts of the ship normally accessible to and used by passengers or crew shall be supplied from the main source of electrical power.
When the number of Contracting States is relevant in this Convention, the regional economic integration organization does not count as a Contracting State in addition to its member States which are Contracting States.
Contracting Governments of States, whether or not Members of the Organization, shall be entitled to participate in the proceedings of the Maritime Safety Committee for the consideration and adoption of amendments.
With the exception of article 20, the provisions of this Convention relating to the liability of the carrier for loss of or damage to the goods also determine whether the consignee may refuse contribution in general average and the liability of the carrier to indemnify the consignee in respect of any such contribution made or any salvage paid.
Seafarers serving on a ship which extends its voyage beyond what is defined as a near-coastal voyage by a Party and enters waters not covered by that definition shall fulfil the appropriate competency requirements of the Convention.
In no case shall the vertical distance from the bottom of such a well to a plane coinciding with the keel line be less than 500 mm.
The free board corresponding to each of these load lines shall be measured at the same position and from the same deck line as the free boards determined in accordance with the International Convention on Load Lines in force.
A certificate called an International Certificate of Fitness for the Carriage of Dangerous Chemicals in Bulk, the model form of which is set out in the appendix to the International Bulk Chemical Code, should be issued after an initial or periodical survey to a chemical tanker engaged in international voyages, which complies with the relevant requirements of the Code.
A regional economic integration organization that is constituted by sovereign States and has competence over certain matters governed by this Convention may similarly sign, ratify, accept, approve or accede to this Convention.
In the flooding calculations carried out according to the regulations, only one breach of the hull and only one free surface need to be assumed.
Minimum comfortable conditions of habitability shall also be ensured which include at least adequate services for cooking, heating, domestic refrigeration, mechanical ventilation,sanitary and fresh water.
For the purpose of this regulation and regulation 3-4, tankers include oil tankers as defined in regulation 2.22, chemical tankers as defined in regulation VII/8.2 and gas carriers as defined in regulation VII/11.2.
Each Member shall require ships that fly its flag to carry and maintain a declaration of maritime labour compliance stating the national requirements implementing this Convention for the working and living conditions for seafarers and setting out the measures adopted by the shipowner to ensure compliance with the requirements on the ship or ships concerned.
The carrier is not liable, except in general average, where loss, damage or delay in delivery resulted from measures to save life or from reasonable measures to save property at sea.
The term "vessel restricted in her ability to manoeuvre" means a vessel which from the nature of her work is restricted in her ability to manoeuvre as required by these Rules and is therefore unable to keep out of the way of another vessel.
However, for locations not covered by such standards, electrical equipment, cables and wiring which do not conform to the standards may be installed in hazardous locations based on a risk assessment to the satisfaction of the Administration, to ensure that an equivalent level of safety is assured.
Every effort should be made by those responsible in port and on board a ship to facilitate shore leave for seafarers as soon as possible after a ship's arrival in port.
It shall be fixed, limited to six seats on each deck in each stairway enclosure, be of restricted fire risk determined in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code, and shall not restrict the passenger escape route.
Bill of lading means a document which evidences a contract of carriage by sea and the taking over or loading of the goods by the carrier, and by which the carrier undertakes to deliver the goods against surrender of the document.
If a steam pipe or fitting may receive steam from any source at a higher pressure than that for which itis designed a suitable reducing valve, relief valve and pressure gauge shall be fitted.
Each Member should require that shipowners take responsibility for repatriation arrangements by appropriate and expeditious means.
Safe access to double bottom spaces or to forward ballast tanks may be from a pump-room, deep cofferdam, pipe tunnel, cargo hold, double hull space or similar compartment not intended for the carriage of oil or hazardous cargoes.
A carrier’s public schedule of prices and services, transport document, electronic transport record or similar document is not a volume contract pursuant to paragraph 1 of this article, but a volume contract may incorporate such documents by reference as terms of the contract.
Each Party undertakes to maintain a register or registers of all certificates and endorsements for masters, officers, and, as applicable, ratings which are issued, have expired or have been revalidated, suspended, cancelled or reported lost or destroyed and of dispensations issued.
However, this shall not prevent the Member from having procedures to authorize or register a collective agreement which determines seafarers normal working hours on a basis no less favourable than this Standard.
Nothing in these Rules shall interfere with the operation of special rules made by an appropriate authority for roadsteads, harbours, rivers, lakes or inland waterways connected with the high seas and navigable by seagoing vessels.
Emergency condition is a condition under which any services needed for normal operational and habitable conditions are not in working order due to failure of the main source of electrical power.
As far as practicable, the bulkheads forming the boundaries of the main vertical zones above the bulkhead deck shall be in line with watertight subdivision bulkheads situated immediately below the bulkhead deck.
All occupational accidents and occupational injuries and diseases should be reported so that they can be investigated and comprehensive statistics can be kept, analysed and published, taking account of protection of the personal data of the seafarers concerned.
Each Member shall establish maximum hours of work or minimum hours of rest over given periods that are consistent with the provisions in the Code.
Subject to article 59, the compensation payable by the carrier for loss of or damage to the goods is calculated by reference to the value of such goods at the place and time of delivery established in accordance with article 43.
Dead ship condition is the condition under which the main propulsion plant, boilers and auxiliaries are not in operation due to the absence of power.
Combustible materials used on the surfaces and linings specified in paragraph 3.2.1 shall have a calorific value not exceeding 45 MJ/㎡ of the area for the thickness used. The requirements of this paragraph are2 not applicable to the surfaces of furniture fixed to linings or bulkheads.
Every seafarer who is designated to take charge of medical care on board ship shall be required to demonstrate the competence to undertake the tasks, duties and responsibilities listed in column 1 of table A-VI/4-2.
A Party may allow discretion on the application of these standards with regard to seafarers in the engine department, on the condition that seafarers combined vision fulfils the requirements set out in table A-I/9.
Each Member shall hold an official inquiry into any serious marine casualty, leading to injury or loss of life, that involves a ship that flies its flag. 
A provision in the document that the goods are to be delivered to the order of a named person, or to order, or to bearer, constitutes such an undertaking.
Subject to paragraph 10, not more than one door, apart from the doors to shaft tunnels, may be fitted in each watertight bulkhead within spaces containing the main and auxiliary propulsion machinery,including boilers serving the needs of propulsion.
In all cases, watertight subdivision bulkheads shall be capable of supporting at least the pressure due to a head of water up to the bulkhead deck.
This part of the STCW Code contains mandatory provisions to which specific reference is made in the annex to the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers, 1978, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the STCW Convention.
Assessment of competency related to security shall be conducted for those seafarers with specific security duties only in case of clear grounds, as provided for in chapter XI/2 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS).
The level of knowledge of the subjects in column 2 of table A-VI/6-2 shall be sufficient to enable every candidate to perform on board designated security duties, including anti-piracy and anti-armed-robbery-related activities.
When the notice referred to in this article is given to the performing party that delivered the goods, it has the same effect as if that notice was given to the carrier, and notice given to the carrier has the same effect as a notice given to a maritime performing party.
“Performing party” means a person other than the carrier that performs or undertakes to perform any of the carrier’s obligations under a contract of carriage with respect to the receipt, loading, handling, stowage, carriage, care, unloading or delivery of the goods, to the extent that such person acts, either directly or indirectly, at the carrier’s request or under the carrier’s supervision or control.
In a competent court or courts designated by an agreement between the shipper and the carrier for the purpose of deciding claims against the carrier that may arise under this Convention.
Power-operated sliding watertight doors permitted in machinery spaces in accordance with regulation 13.10 shall be closed before the ship leaves port and shall remain closed during navigation except in case of urgent necessity at the discretion of the master.
In no case shall the aggregate liability of the carrier, under both subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph, exceed the limitation which would be established under subparagraph (a) of this paragraph for total loss of the goods with respect to which such liability was incurred.
Under the masters general direction, the officers of the navigational watch are responsible for navigating the ship safely during their periods of duty, when they will be particularly concerned with avoiding collision and stranding.
The minimum knowledge, understanding and proficiency required for certification of GMDSS radio operators shall be sufficient for radio operators to carry out their radio duties.
Where cables which are installed in hazardous areas introduce the risk of fire or explosion in the event of an electrical fault in such areas, special precautions against such risks shall be taken to the satisfaction of[the Administration.
Subject to any conditions for recruitment to the public service which may be prescribed by national laws and regulations, inspectors should have qualifications and adequate training to perform their duties and where possible should have a maritime education or experience as a seafarer.
Any stipulation in a contract of carriage by sea, in a bill of lading, or in any other document evidencing the contract of carriage by sea is null and void to the extent that it derogates, directly or indirectly, from the provisions of this Convention.
“Performing party” does not include any person that is retained, directly or indirectly, by a shipper, by a documentary shipper, by the controlling party or by the consignee instead of by the carrier.
Each Member shall adopt laws and regulations and other measures addressing the matters specified in the Code, taking into account relevant international instruments, and set standards for occupational safety and health protection and accident prevention on ships that fly its flag.
For those Members whose ratification of this Convention was registered before the adoption of an amendment but which have not ratified the amendment, this Convention shall remain in force without the amendment concerned.
As far as practicable, parts of the oil fuel system containing heated oil under pressure exceeding 0.18 N/mm2 shall not be placed in a concealed position such that defects and leakage cannot readily be observed.
Every candidate for certification as electro-technical officer shall be required to demonstrate the ability to undertake the tasks, duties and responsibilities listed in column 1 of table A-III/6.
Oil fuel pipes and their valves and fittings shall be of steel or other approved material, except that restricted use of flexible pipes shall be permissible in positions where the Administration is satisfied that they are necessary.
A certificate called a Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate shall be issued after survey to a cargo ship of 500 gross tonnage and over which complies with the relevant requirements of chapters II-1 and II-2 and III and any other relevant requirements of SOLAS 1974.
Nevertheless, any stipulation limiting or excluding such liability is without effect if no judicial proceedings can be instituted against the actual carrier in a court competent under paragraph 1 or 2 of article 21.
The absence or inaccuracy of one or more of the contract particulars referred to in article 36, paragraphs 1, 2 or 3, does not of itself affect the legal character or validity of the transport document or of the electronic transport record.
Lead or other heat-sensitive materials shall not be used in systems which penetrate watertight bulkheads, where deterioration of such systems in the event of fire would impair the watertight integrity of the bulkheads.
The declaration of maritime labour compliance should, above all, be drafted in clear terms designed to help all persons concerned, such as flag state inspectors, authorized officers in port States and seafarers, to check that the requirements are being properly implemented.
In other cases, the number of different defects found during a particular inspection should be taken into account: for example, several instances of defects relating to accommodation or food and catering which do not threaten safety or health might be needed before they should be considered as constituting a serious breach.
The design of the remote automatic control system shall be such that in case of its failure an alarm will be given. Unless the Administration considers it impracticable, the preset speed and direction of thrust of the propeller shall be maintained until local control is in operation.
The controlling party is the only person that may agree with the carrier to variations to the contract of carriage other than those referred to in article 50, subparagraphs 1 (b) and (c).
Recreational facilities and services should be reviewed frequently to ensure that they are appropriate in the light of changes in the needs of seafarers resulting from technical, operational and other developments in the shipping industry.
A ship intended for alternating modes of operation may, if the owners desire, have one or more additional load lines assigned and marked to correspond with the subdivision draughts which the Administration may approve for the alternative service configurations.
The period of responsibility of the carrier for the goods under this Convention begins when the carrier or a performing party receives the goods for carriage and ends when the goods are delivered.
The public institutions or other organizations referred to in paragraph 3 of Regulation 5.1.1 (recognized organizations) shall have been recognized by the competent authority as meeting the requirements in the Code regarding competency and independence.
Training and experience to achieve the necessary level of theoretical knowledge, understanding and proficiency shall take into account the guidance in section B-VI/5 of this Code.
Subject to paragraph 1 of this Guideline and unless otherwise provided in an agreement applicable to the shipowner and the seafarer concerned, the annual leave with pay recommended in this Guideline should consist of an uninterrupted period.
Medical fitness examinations of seafarers shall be conducted by appropriately qualified and experienced medical practitioners recognized by the Party.
Each Party shall ensure that the aims and objectives of simulator-based training are defined within an overall training programme and that specific training objectives and tasks are selected so as to relate as closely as possible to shipboard tasks and practices.
The foregoing provisions shall also apply where the owners, operators or those in charge of any vessel or vessels or objects other than, or in addition to, the colliding vessels or objects are at fault in respect of a collision or contact.
The chief engineer officer of every ship is bound, in consultation with the master, to ensure that watchkeeping arrangements are adequate to maintain a safe engineering watch.
Each Member shall require, where welfare facilities exist on its territory, that they are available for the use of all seafarers, irrespective of nationality, race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion or social origin and irrespective of the flag State of the ship on which they are employed or engaged or work.
Every able seafarer engine serving on a seagoing ship powered by main propulsion machinery of 750 kW propulsion power or more shall be required to demonstrate the competence to perform the functions at the support level, as specified in column 1 of table A-III/5.
Bills of Lading shall be presented and signed by the Master as per the "Congenbill" Bill of Lading form, Edition 1994, without prejudice to this Charter Party, or by the Owners' agents provided written authority has been given by Owners to the agents, a copy of which is to be furnished to the Charterers.
The shipper is liable for loss or damage sustained by the carrier if the carrier proves that such loss or damage was caused by a breach of the shipper’s obligations under this Convention.
Each Member shall take steps according to its national circumstances to provide the complementary social security protection referred to in paragraph 1 of this Standard to all seafarers ordinarily resident in their territory.
In these cases, smaller bilge wells to cover a reasonable period of time may be permitted. Where automatically controlled bilge pumps are provided, special attention shall be given to oil pollution prevention requirements.
The minimum knowledge, understanding and proficiency required of ratings forming part of an engine-room watch is listed in column 2 of table A-III/4.
Power actuating system is the hydraulic equipment provided for supplying power to turn the rudder stock, comprising a steering gear power unit or units, together with the associated pipes and fittings, and a rudder actuator.
Information provided and measures agreed upon under this regulation shall be communicated to the Secretary-General in conformity with the requirements of regulation I/7.
With the exception of additional pumps which may be provided for peak compartments only, each required bilge pump shall be so arranged as to draw water from any space required to be drained by paragraph 2.1.
Bunker oil means any hydrocarbon mineral oil，including lubricating oil，used or intended to be used for the operation or propulsion of the ship，and any residues of such oil．
These persons shall ordinarily be available during relevant sessions of the Maritime Safety Committee or its subsidiary bodies, but need not conduct their work solely during such sessions.
A certificate called a Permit to Operate High-Speed Craft shall be issued to a craft which complies with the requirements set out in paragraphs 1.2.2 to 1.2.7 of the 1994 HSC Code or the 2000 HSC Code, as appropriate.
The declaration mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if embodied in the Bill of Lading, shall be prima facie evidence, but shall not be binding or conclusive on the carrier.
External boundaries which arc required in regulation 11.2 to be of steel or other equivalent material may be pierced for the fitting of windows and sidescuttles provided that there is no requirement for such boundaries of tankers to have "A" class integrity.
Other closing appliances which are kept permanently closed at sea to ensure the watertight integrity of external openings shall be provided with a notice affixed to each appliance to the effect that it is to be kept closed.
At the request of any Party, the Maritime Safety Committee shall establish a date for the consideration of the trial results and for the appropriate determinations.
Unless the parties agree upon a sole arbitrator, one arbitrator shall be appointed by each party and the arbitrators so appointed shall appoint a third arbitrator, the decision of the three-man tribunal thus constituted or any two of them, shall be final.
Each Member should ensure that seafarers have the same legal remedies for recovering such indemnities as they have for recovering arrears of wages earned during the service.
The liability of the carrier for loss resulting from loss of or damage to goods according to the provisions of article 5 is limited to an amount equivalent to 835 units of account per package or other shipping unit or 2.5 units of account per kilogramme of gross weight of the goods lost or damaged, whichever is the higher.
Training and experience to achieve the necessary level of theoretical knowledge, understanding and proficiency shall take account of the guidance given in part B of this Code.
Where a ventilation trunk passing through a structure penetrates the bulkhead deck, the trunk shall be capable of withstanding the water pressure that may be present within the trunk, after having taken into account the maximum heel angle allowable during intermediate stages of flooding, in accordance with regulation 7-2.
Members, with the assistance as appropriate of intergovernmental and other international organizations, should endeavour, in cooperation with each other, to achieve the greatest possible uniformity of action for the promotion of occupational safety and health protection and prevention of accidents.
Crude oil is any oil occurring naturally in the earth, whether or not treated to render it suitable for transportation, and includes crude oil where certain distillate fractions may have been removed from or added to.
If pipes, ducts or tunnels are situated within the assumed extent of damage, arrangements are to be made to ensure that progressive flooding cannot thereby extend to compartments other than those assumed flooded.
Trim is the difference between the draught forward and the draught aft, where the draughts are measured at the forward and aft terminals respectively, disregarding any rake of keel.
If the shipowner proves that the pollution damage resulted wholly or partially either from an act or omission done with intent to cause damage by the person who suffered the damage or from the negligence of that person，the shipowner may be exonerated wholly or partially from liability to such person．
A vessel shall so far as practicable avoid crossing traffic lanes, but if obliged to do so shall cross as nearly as practicable at right angles to the general direction of traffic flow.
a certificate of proficiency issued to masters and officers in accordance with the provisions of regulations V/1-1 and V/1-2 shall endorse such certificate to attest its recognition only after ensuring the authenticity and validity of the certificate.
Nothing in this Convention shall prejudice any right of recourse of the shipowner which exists independently of this Convention．
If such an action is brought against a servant or agent of the carrier, such servant or agent, if he proves that he acted within the scope of his employment, is entitled to avail himself of the defences and limits of liability which the carrier is entitled to invoke under this Convention.
The means used for making them watertight, and the arrangements adopted for closing openings in them, shall be to the satisfaction of the Administration- Watertight ventilators and trunks shall be carried at least up to the bulkhead deck in passenger ships and up to the free board deck in cargo ships.
National laws or regulations may limit the liability of the shipowner to pay wages in whole or in part in respect of a seafarer no longer on board to a period which shall not be less than 16 weeks from the day of the injury or the commencement of the sickness.
Each Party shall take and enforce appropriate measures to prevent fraud and other unlawful practices involving certificates and endorsements issued.
On completion of loading of the ship and prior to its departure, the master shall determine the ship’s trim and stability and also ascertain and record that the ship is in compliance with stability criteria in relevant regulations.
If cargo loading and ballasting or discharging of a cargo tank or cargo tank group which is isolated from a common venting system is intended, that cargo tank or cargo tank group shall be fitted with a means for over-pressure or under-pressure protection as required in regulation 11.6.3.2.
Tanks which are intended to hold liquids, and which form part of the watertight subdivision of the ship, shall be tested for tightness and structural strength with water to a head corresponding to its design pressure.
Each Member shall adopt laws and regulations determining the minimum standards for annual leave for seafarers serving on ships that fly its flag, taking proper account of the special needs of seafarers with respect to such leave.
The level of pay during annual leave should be at the seafarers normal level of remuneration provided for by national laws or regulations or in the applicable seafarers employment agreement.
A register of recognized medical practitioners shall be maintained by the Party and made available to other Parties, companies and seafarers on request.
If the inboard opening is situated below the bulkhead deck of passenger ships and the freeboard deck of cargo ships, the cover shall be watertight and, in addition, an automatic non-return valve shall be fitted in the chute in an easily accessible position above the deepest subdivision draught.
The medical certificates are kept in strict confidence by the competent officer, together with a list, prepared under the competent officer’s responsibility and stating for each seafarer on board: the functions of the seafarer, the date of the current medical certificate(s) and the health status noted on the certificate concerned.
Delay in delivery occurs when the goods are not delivered at the place of destination provided for in the contract of carriage within the time agreed.
Each Member shall prohibit violations of the requirements of this Convention and shall, in accordance with international law, establish sanctions or require the adoption of corrective measures under its laws which are adequate to discourage such violations.
Adequate rules shall be provided and effectively enforced by each Member in order to guarantee that inspectors have the status and conditions of service to ensure that they are independent of changes of government and of improper external influences.
Relief valves shall be fitted to any part of the hydraulic system which can be isolated and in which pressure can be generated from the power source or from external forces. The setting of the relief valves shall not exceed the design pressure.
A brokerage commission at the rate stated in Box 24 on the freight, dead-freight and demurrage earned is due to the party mentioned in Box 24.
The competent authority should work in close cooperation with the shipowners' and seafarers' organizations concerned and with national or local authorities dealing with questions of food and health, and may where necessary utilize the services of such authorities.
The level of knowledge of the subjects listed in column 2 of table A-II/3 shall be sufficient to enable the candidate to serve in the capacity of officer in charge of a navigational watch.
In the assessment, only the methods for demonstrating competence together with the criteria for its evaluation and the scope of the standards given in part A of this Code shall be used.
In clear weather, whenever possible, the officer in charge of the navigational watch shall carry out radar practice.
Except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4，the shipowner at the time of an incident shall be liable for pollution damage caused by any bunker oil on board or originating from the ship，provided that，if an incident consists of a series of occurrences having the same origin，the liability shall attach to the shipowner at the time of the first of such occurrences．
The construction of doors and door frames in "A" class divisions, with the means of securing them when closed, shall provide resistance to fire as well as to the passage of smoke and flame equivalent to that of the bulkheads in which the doors are situated, this being determined in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code.
The emergency source of electrical power, associated transforming equipment, if any, transitional source of emergency power, emergency switchboard and emergency lighting switchboard shall be located above the uppermost continuous deck and shall be readily accessible from the open deck.
Location and arrangement of vent pipes for fuel oil service, settling and lubrication oil tanks shall be such that in the event of a broken vent pipe this shall not directly lead to the risk of ingress of seawater splashes or rainwater.
No compensation shall be payable for loss resulting from delay in delivery unless a notice has been given in writing to the carrier within 60 consecutive days after the day when the goods were handed over to the consignee.
The onboard complaint procedures shall include the right of the seafarer to be accompanied or represented during the complaints procedure, as well as safeguards against the possibility of victimization of seafarers for filing complaints.
Emergency source of electrical power is a source of electrical power, intended to supply the emergency switch board in the event of a failure of the supply from the main source of electrical power.
These provisions give in detail the minimum standards required to be maintained by Parties in order to give full and complete effect to the Convention.
Unless expressly provided otherwise, this chapter shall apply to ships the keels of which are laid or which are at a similar stage of construction on or after 1 January 2009.
The officer in charge of the navigational or deck watch shall be duly qualified in accordance with the provisions of chapter II or chapter VII appropriate to the duties related to navigational or deck watchkeeping.
The relieving officer shall ensure that the members of the relieving watch are fully capable of performing their duties, particularly as regards their adjustment to night vision.
The capacity in which the holder of a certificate is authorized to serve shall be identified in the form of endorsement in terms identical to those used in the applicable safe manning requirements of the Administration.
The competent authority or recognized organization duly authorized for this purpose shall certify Part II and shall issue the declaration of maritime labour compliance.
Hinged doors, portable plates, sidescuttles, gangway, cargo and bunkering ports and other openings,which are required by these regulations to be kept closed during navigation, shall be closed before the ship leaves port.
The following provisions in paragraph 3.1.2 shall not apply to ships constructed on or after 1 October1994: Unless a second independent means of starting the emergency generating set is provided, the single source of stored energy shall be protected to preclude its complete depletion by the automatic starting system.
Air and overflow pipes and relief valves shall discharge to a position where there is no risk of fire or explosion from the emergence of oils and vapour and shall not lead into crew spaces, passenger spaces nor into special category spaces, closed ro-ro spaces, machinery spaces or similar spaces.
Gangway, cargo and fuelling ports fitted below the bulkhead deck of passenger ships and the free board deck of cargo ships shall be watertight and in no case be so fitted as to have their lowest point below the deepest subdivision draught.
Each Contracting State shall apply this Convention to contracts of carriage concluded on or after the date of the entry into force of this Convention in respect of that State.
Such denunciation shall take effect on the same date as denunciation of the Convention takes effect according to paragraph (c) of article XI of the Convention.
A document of authorization shall be issued for every ship loaded in accordance with the regulations of the International Code for the Safe Carriage of Grain in Bulk either by the Administration or an organization recognized by it or by a Contracting Government on behalf of the Administration.
Each watertight subdivision bulkhead, whether transverse or longitudinal, shall be constructed having scantlings as specified in regulation 2.17.
Each Member shall ensure that its authorized officers are given guidance, of the kind indicated in Part B of the Code, as to the kinds of circumstances justifying detention of a ship under paragraph 6 of this Standard.
When considering whether a maritime labour certificate should be withdrawn in accordance with paragraph 16 of this Standard, the competent authority or the recognized organization shall take into account the seriousness or the frequency of the deficiencies.
External high-pressure fuel delivery lines between the high-pressure fuel pumps and fuel injectors shall be protected with a jacketed piping system capable of containing fuel from a high-pressure line failure.
The officer in charge of the navigational watch shall bear in mind the necessity to comply at all times with the requirements in force of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), 1974.
The total volume of combustible facings, mouldings, decorations and veneers in accommodation and service spaces shall not exceed a volume equivalent to 2.5 mm veneer on the combined area of the walls and ceiling linings.
Tanks, and subdivisions of tanks, having a length of 35 m or more, shall be fitted with at least two access hatchways and ladders, as far apart as practicable.
The competent authority, in conjunction with the competent international bodies and with representatives of shipowners' and seafarers' organizations concerned, should review on an ongoing basis the problem of noise on board ships with the objective of improving the protection of seafarers, in so far as practicable, from the adverse effects of exposure to noise.
If, in cases where the provisions of paragraph 2, subparagraph (b), of this article do not apply or may not be invoked, dangerous goods become an actual danger to life or property, they may be unloaded, destroyed or rendered innocuous, as the circumstances may require, without payment of compensation except where there is an obligation to contribute in general average or where the carrier is liable in accordance with the provisions of article 5.
Other wells (e.g., for lubricating oil under main engines) maybe permitted by the Administration if satisfied that the arrangements give protection equivalent to that afforded by a double bottom complying with this regulation.
Special category spaces and ro—ro spaces shall be continuously patrolled or monitored by effective means, such as television surveillance, so that any movement of vehicles in adverse weather conditions and unauthorized access by passengers thereto can be detected whilst the ship is under way.
On ships having accommodation for 12 persons or less, where stairways penetrate more than a single deck and where there are at least two escape routes direct to the open deck at every accommodation level, the "A-0" requirements of paragraph 2.3.4.1 may be reduced to "B-0".
In any case of possible doubt as to whether the seafarer is medically fit for a particular function or functions, the competent officer consults the seafarer's doctor or another qualified practitioner and records a summary of the practitioner's conclusions, as well as the practitioner's name and telephone number and the date of the consultation.
Such a Manual shall be to the satisfaction of the Administration and shall contain all the information set out in the specifications referred to in paragraph 2 of regulation 13B of Annex I of MARPOL 73/78.
Every master, officer and radio operator shall, for continuing seagoing service on board ships for which special training requirements have been internationally agreed upon, successfully complete approved relevant training.
Relieving officers shall not take over the watch until their vision is fully adjusted to the light conditions.
In a ship in which oil fuel is used, the arrangements for the storage, distribution and utilization of the oil fuel shall be such as to ensure the safety of the ship and persons on board and shall at least comply with the following provisions.
Each Party shall prescribe penalties or disciplinary measures for cases in which the provisions of its national legislation giving effect to the Convention are not complied with in respect of ships entitled to fly its flag or of seafarers duly certificated by that Party.
All transverse or longitudinal bulkheads which are taken into account as effective to confine the seawater accumulated on the ro—ro deck shall be in place and secured before the ship leaves the berth and remain in place and secured until the ship is at its next berth.
The reports referred to in paragraph 5 of Regulation 5.1.1 shall contain information regarding any recognized organization, the extent of authorizations given and the arrangements made by the Member to ensure that the authorized activities are carried out completely and effectively.
Main source of electrical power is a source intended to supply electrical power to the main switchboard for distribution to all services necessary for maintaining the ship in normal operational and habitable conditions.
The material, construction and fire resistance of the hose port shall be equivalent to the door into which it is fitted, and shall be a 150 mm square clear opening with the door closed and shall be inset into the lower edge of the door, opposite the door hinges or, in the case of sliding doors, nearest the opening.
Any convention governing the carriage of goods by inland waterways to the extent that such convention according to its provisions applies to a carriage of goods without trans-shipment both by inland waterways and sea.
The statement of national requirements in Part I of the declaration of maritime labour compliance should include or be accompanied by references to the legislative provisions relating to the seafarers' working and living conditions in each of the matters listed in Appendix A5-I.
The fixed fire detection and fire alarm system required in paragraph 4.1.1 shall be so designed and the detectors so positioned as to detect rapidly the onset of fire in any part of those spaces and under any normal conditions of operation of the machinery and variations of ventilation as required by the possible range of ambient temperatures.
Each Member shall facilitate the repatriation of seafarers serving on ships which call at its ports or pass through its territorial or internal waters, as well as their replacement on board.
“Liner transportation” means a transportation service that is offered to the public through publication or similar means and includes transportation by ships operating on a regular schedule between specified ports in accordance with publicly available timetables of sailing dates.
For ships constructed on or after 1 October 1994, the requirement of paragraph 3.1 does not preclude the use of limited and locally earthed systems, provided that any possible resulting current does not flow directly through any dangerous spaces.
On the receipt by one party of the nomination in writing of the other party's arbitrator, that party shall appoint their arbitrator within fourteen days, failing which the decision of the single arbitrator appointed shall be final.
The master shall be supplied with such information satisfactory to the Administration as is necessary to enable him by rapid and simple processes to obtain accurate guidance as to the stability of the ship under varying conditions of service.
The “issuance” of a negotiable electronic transport record means the issuance of the record in accordance with procedures that ensure that the record is subject to exclusive control from its creation until it ceases to have any effect or validity.
The present Convention shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the Organization who shall transmit certified true copies thereof to the Governments of all States which have signed the present Convention or acceded to it.
If the loading/discharging berth is not available on the Vessel's arrival at or off the port of loading/discharging, the Vessel shall be entitled to give notice of readiness within ordinary office hours on arrival there, whether in free pratique or not, whether customs cleared or not.
A Statement of Compliance shall be issued by the Administration to every oil tanker which has been surveyed in accordance with the requirements of the Condition Assessment Scheme (CAS) (resolution MEPC.94(46), as amended) and found to be in compliance with these requirements.
The period provided in article 62 shall not be subject to suspension or interruption, but the person against which a claim is made may at any time during the running of the period extend that period by a declaration to the claimant.
After any survey of the ship under regulations 7, 8, 9 or 10 has been completed, no change shall be made in the structural arrangements, machinery, equipment and other items covered by the survey,without the sanction of the Administration.
Subject to any relevant provisions of an applicable collective agreement, the competent authority should, in close consultation with shipowners and seafarers organizations, develop a model for fair, expeditious and well-documented on-board complaint-handling procedures for all ships that fly the Member's flag.
The actual carrier is responsible in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of article 10 for loss, damage or delay in delivery caused by an occurrence which takes place while the goods are in his charge.
“Contract particulars” means any information relating to the contract of carriage or to the goods (including terms, notations, signatures and endorsements) that is in a transport document or an electronic transport record.
“Volume contract” means a contract of carriage that provides for the carriage of a specified quantity of goods in a series of shipments during an agreed period of time.
If the carrier or other person issuing the bill of lading on his behalf fails to note on the bill of lading the apparent condition of the goods, he is deemed to have noted on the bill of lading that the goods were in apparent good condition.
Measures should be considered to ensure, subject to any applicable national or international laws or regulations, that whenever possible and reasonable seafarers are expeditiously granted permission to have their partners, relatives and friends as visitors on board their ship when in port.
Demurrage at the loading and discharging port is payable by the Charterers at 123 the rate stated in Box 20 in the manner stated in Box 20 per day or pro rata for any part of a day.
This Protocol shall be open for signature by the States which have ratified the Convention or which have adhered thereto before the 23rd February 1968, and by any State represented at the twelfth session (1967-1968) of the Diplomatic Conference on Maritime Law.
Each Member should require the recognized organizations to develop a system for qualification of staff employed by them as inspectors to ensure the timely updating of their knowledge and expertise.
In general, this publication reproduces the text of the 1974 SOLAS Convention and the1988 SOLAS Protocol and includes the modifications and amendments thereto given in their authentic texts.
Where transformers constitute an essential part of the electrical supply system required by this paragraph, the system shall be so arranged as to ensure the same continuity of the supply as is stated in this paragraph.
In addition, every candidate for certification of competency shall be required to demonstrate ability to undertake the tasks, duties and responsibilities listed in column 1 of table A-IV/2.
The level of knowledge and understanding of the subjects listed in column 2 of table A-VI/3 shall be sufficient for the effective control of fire-fighting operations on board ship.
Any instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession deposited after the entry into force of an amendment to this Convention, is deemed to apply to the Convention as amended.
Contract of carriage by sea means any contract whereby the carrier undertakes against payment of freight to carry goods by sea from one port to another; however, a contract which involves carriage by sea and also carriage by some other means is deemed to be a contract of carriage by sea for the purposes of this Convention only in so far as it relates to the carriage by sea.
The person against whom a claim is made may at any time during the running of the limitation period extend that period by a declaration in writing to the claimant.
The number of openings in watertight bulkheads shall be reduced to the minimum compatible with the design and proper working of the ship; satisfactory means shall be provided for closing these openings.
The competent authority should make appropriate arrangements to promote effective cooperation between public institutions and other organizations, referred to in Regulations 5.1.1 and 5.1.2, concerned with seafarers' shipboard working and living conditions.
Shipowners shall ensure that seafarers who are engaged as ships' cooks are trained, qualified and found competent for the position in accordance with requirements set out in the laws and regulations of the Member concerned.
The liability of the carrier for delay in delivery according to the provisions of article 5 is limited to an amount equivalent to two and a half times the freight payable for the goods delayed, but not exceeding the total freight payable under the contract of carriage of goods by sea.
If the Administration is satisfied that such doors are essential, watertight doors of satisfactory construction may be fitted in watertight bulkheads dividing cargo between deck spaces.
National laws or regulations may limit the liability of the shipowner to defray the expense of medical care and board and lodging to a period which shall not be less than 16 weeks from the day of the injury or the commencement of the sickness.
The Administration shall give special consideration to the reliability of single essential propulsion components and may require a separate source of propulsion power sufficient to give the ship a navigable speed, especially in the case of unconventional arrangements.
However,in a ship with special category spaces, such spaces shall comply with the applicable provisions of regulation 20 and, where such compliance would be inconsistent with other requirements for passenger ships specified in this chapter, the requirements of regulation 20 shall prevail.
The intended voyage shall be planned in advance, taking into consideration all pertinent information, and any course laid down shall be checked before the voyage commences.
If during loading the Master, for fear of the Vessel being frozen in, deems it advisable to leave, he has liberty to do so with what cargo he has on board and to proceed to any other port or ports with option of completing cargo for the Owners' benefit for any port or ports including port of discharge.
Also contained in this part are standards of competence required to be demonstrated by candidates for the issue and revalidation of certificates of competency under the provisions of the STCW Convention.
Galleys, pantries containing cooking appliances, paint lockers, lockers and store-rooms having areas of 4m or more, spaces for the storage of flammable liquids, saunas and2 workshops other than those forming part of the machinery spaces.
Every oil tanker fitted with an Oil Discharge Monitoring and Control system shall be provided with instructions as to the operation of the system in accordance with an operational manual approved by the Administration.
Where a bill of lading or any other document evidencing the contract of carriage by sea is issued, it must contain a statement that the carriage is subject to the provisions of this Convention which nullify any stipulation derogating therefrom to the detriment of the shipper or the consignee.
The hours of rest may be divided into no more than two periods, one of which shall be at least 6 hours in length, and the intervals between consecutive periods of rest shall not exceed 14 hours.
If the carrier has previously issued to the shipper a bill of lading or other document of title with resect to any of such goods, on request of the carrier, the shipper must surrender such document in exchange for a "shipped" bill of lading.
At the end of the period referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, the proposal, accompanied by a summary of any observations or suggestions made under that paragraph, shall be transmitted to the Committee for consideration at a meeting.
The carrier is responsible, in relation to the carriage performed by the actual carrier, for the acts and omissions of the actual carrier and of his servants and agents acting within the scope of their employment.
Amendments adopted in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article shall be submitted to the next session of the Conference for approval. Such approval shall require a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast by the delegates present.
Where all or part of the penetration of the bulkhead deck is on the main ro—ro deck, the trunk shall be capable of withstanding impact pressure due to internal water motions (sloshing) of water trapped on the ro-ro deck.
In the case of other Members of the Organization, the text of the Convention as amended shall be communicated to them for ratification in accordance with article 19 of the Constitution.
Notwithstanding the provisions of article 32, a conference only for the purpose of altering the amount specified in article 6 and paragraph 2 of article 26, or of substituting either or both of the units defined in paragraphs 1 and 3 of article 26 by other units is to be convened by the depositary in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article.
The statistics referred to in paragraph 1 of this Guideline should record the numbers, nature, causes and effects of occupational accidents and occupational injuries and diseases, with a clear indication, as applicable, of the department on board a ship, the type of accident and whether at sea or in port.
Where the bilge pumps are capable of being started automatically, means shall be provided to indicate when the influx of liquid is greater than the pump capacity or when the pump is operating more frequently than would normally be expected.
Each Member undertakes to take steps, according to its national circumstances, individually and through international cooperation, to achieve progressively comprehensive social security protection for seafarers.
This Charter Party shall be governed by and construed in accordance with English law and any dispute arising out of this Charter Party shall be referred to arbitration in London in accordance with the Arbitration Acts 1950 and 1979 or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force.
Where pipes, scuppers, electric cables, etc., are carried through watertight bulkheads, arrangements shall be made to ensure the watertight integrity of the bulkheads.
All sidescuttles the sills of which are below the bulkhead deck of passenger ships and the freeboard deck of cargo ships, as permitted by paragraph 3.1, shall be of such construction as will effectively prevent any person opening them without the consent of the master of the ship.
In formulating occupational safety and health protection and accident prevention programmes, each Member should have due regard to any code of practice concerning the safety and health of seafarers which may have been published by the International Labour Organization.
Each Member shall provide the International Labour Office with a current list of any recognized organizations authorized to act on its behalf and it shall keep this list up to date.
In establishing an effective system for the inspection and certification of maritime labour conditions, a Member may, where appropriate, authorize public institutions or other organizations (including those of another Member, if the latter agrees) which it recognizes as competent and independent to carry out inspections or to issue certificates or to do both.
Such ships, if constructed before 1 July 2002, shall, as a rule, comply with the requirements for ships constructed on or after that date to at least the same extent as they did before undergoing such repairs, alterations, modifications or outfitting.
All accesses from the ro—ro deck and vehicle ramps that lead to spaces below the bulkhead deck shall be closed before the ship leaves the berth on any voyage and shall remain closed until the ship is at its next berth.
Should the Vessel not be ready to load (whether in berth or not) on the cancelling date indicated in Box 21, the Charterers shall have the option of cancelling this Charter Party.
The level of knowledge of the subjects listed in column 2 of table A-VI/4-2 shall be sufficient to enable the designated seafarer to take immediate effective action in the case of accidents or illness likely to occur on board ship.
The arrangements for the storage, distribution and utilization of other flammable oils employed under pressure in power transmission systems, control and activating systems and heating systems shall be such as to ensure the safety of the ship and persons on board.
However, Members are required under paragraph 2 of Article VI to give due consideration to implementing their responsibilities under Part A of the Code in the manner provided for in Part B.
For example, Standard A4.1 requires all ships to provide prompt access to the necessary medicines for medical care on board ship (paragraph 1(b)) and to carry a medicine chest (paragraph 4(a)).
When determining manning levels, the competent authority shall take into account all the requirements within Regulation 3.2 and Standard A3.2 concerning food and catering.
Officers of the navigational watch shall know the handling characteristics of their ship, including its stopping distances, and should appreciate that other ships may have different handling characteristics.
Cables and wiring serving essential or emergency power, lighting, internal communications or signals shall so far as practicable be routed clear of galleys, laundries, machinery spaces of category A and their casings and other high fire risk areas.
The entitlement to repatriation may lapse if the seafarers concerned do not claim it within a reasonable period of time to be defined by national laws or regulations or collective agreements.
Delay in delivery occurs when the goods have not been delivered at the port of discharge provided for in the contract of carriage by sea within the time expressly agreed upon or, in the absence of such agreement, within the time which it would be reasonable to require of a diligent carrier, having regard to the circumstances of the case.
Nothing in this article prevents the claimant from proving that any person other than a person identified in the contract particulars or pursuant to paragraph 2 of this article is the carrier.
In passenger ships the stern gland shall be situated in a watertight shaft tunnel or other watertight space separate from the stern tube compartment and of such volume that, if flooded by leakage through the stern gland, the bulkhead deck will not be immersed.
On passenger ships constructed on or after 1 July 2008, primary deck coverings on cabin balconies shall not give rise to smoke, toxic or explosive hazards at elevated temperatures, this being determined in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code.
The defences and limits of liability provided for in this Convention apply in any action against the carrier in respect of loss or damage to the goods covered by the contract of carriage by sea, as well as of delay in delivery whether the action is founded in contract, in tort or otherwise.
The schedules shall be established in a standardized format in the working language or languages of the ship and in English.
Notification of any such repatriation, with the reasons therefor, should be given to the authority which issued the papers enabling the young seafarers concerned to take up seagoing employment.
Power for the operation of the air conditioning and other aids to ventilation required by the preceding paragraphs of this Guideline should be available at all times when seafarers are living or working on board and conditions so require.
If necessary, the ship shall be re-inclined. The ship shall be re-inclined if anticipated deviations exceed one of the values specified in paragraph 5.
The master shall ensure, before the ship leaves the berth on any voyage, that an entry in the log-book,as required by regulation 22.13, is made of the time of the last closing of the accesses referred to in paragraph 3.
The value of the goods is fixed according to the commodity exchange price or, if there is no such price, according to their market price or, if there is no commodity exchange price or market price, by reference to the normal value of the goods of the same kind and quality at the place of delivery.
The system shall be fitted with a recording device to provide a continuous record of the discharge in litres per nautical mile and total quantity discharged, or the oil content and rate of discharge. 
Where the hull return system is used, all final subcircuits, i.e. all circuits fitted after the last protective device, shall be two-wire and special precautions shall be taken to the satisfaction of the Administration.
The officer in charge of the navigational watch shall not hand over the watch to the relieving officer if there is reason to believe that the latter is not capable of carrying out the watchkeeping duties effectively, in which case the master shall be notified.
The Parties to the present Protocol undertake to give effect to the provisions of the present Protocol and the annex hereto, which shall constitute an integral part of the present Protocol.
In all ships, electric light should be provided in the seafarer accommodation. If there are not two independent sources of electricity for lighting, additional lighting should be provided by properly constructed lamps or lighting apparatus for emergency use.
A ship to which this Convention applies may, in accordance with international law, be inspected by a Member other than the flag State, when the ship is in one of its ports, to determine whether the ship is in compliance with the requirements of this Convention.
The competent authority should issue recommendations to avoid wastage of food, facilitate the maintenance of a proper standard of hygiene, and ensure the maximum practicable convenience in working arrangements.
The absence in the bill of lading of one or more particulars referred to in this article does not affect the legal character of the document as a bill of lading provided that it nevertheless meets the requirements set out in paragraph 7 of article 1.
Seafarers shall be granted shore leave to benefit their health and well-being and with the operational requirements of their positions.
For each State that becomes a Contracting State to this Convention after the date of the deposit of the twentieth instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, this Convention enters into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of one year after the deposit of the appropriate instrument on behalf of that State.
Measures should be taken to ensure that, as necessary, technically competent persons are employed full time in the operation of seafarers' welfare facilities and services, in addition to any voluntary workers.
They shall be in the languages required by paragraph 11 of this Standard. The seafarers shall receive a copy of the records pertaining to them which shall be endorsed by the master, or a person authorized by the master and by the seafarers.
Each Member shall ensure that ships that fly its flag carry on board and serve food and drinking water of appropriate quality, nutritional value and quantity that adequately covers the requirements of the ship and takes into account the differing cultural and religious backgrounds.
The protection to be provided at the time of ratification in accordance with Standard A4.5, paragraph 2, should at least include the branches of medical care, sickness benefit and employment injury benefit.
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this article, an action may be instituted in the courts of any port or place in a Contracting State at which the carrying vessel or any other vessel of the same ownership may have been arrested in accordance with applicable rules of the law of that State and of international law.
Parties shall direct the attention of companies, masters, chief engineer officers and watchkeeping personnel to the following principles, which shall be observed to ensure that safe watches are maintained at all times.
“Consignee” means a person entitled to delivery of the goods under a contract of carriage or a transport document or electronic transport record.
The watertight doors and all mechanisms and indicators connected therewith, all valves the closing of which is necessary to make a compartment watertight, and all valves the operation of which is necessary for damage control cross-connections shall be periodically inspected at sea at least once a week.
The main switchboard shall be so placed relative to one main generating station that, as far as is practicable, the integrity of the normal electrical supply may be affected only by a fire or other casualty in one space.
A bill of lading which does not, as provided in paragraph 1, subparagraph (k) of article 15, set forth the freight or otherwise indicate that freight is payable by the consignee or does not set forth demurrage incurred at the port of loading payable by the consignee, is prima facie evidence that no freight or such demurrage is payable by him.
One copy of the report in English or in the working language of the ship shall be furnished to the master of the ship and another copy shall be posted on the ship's notice board for the information of the seafarers and, upon request, sent to their representatives.
he medical certificate shall be issued by a duly qualified medical practitioner or, in the case of a certificate solely concerning eyesight, by a person recognized by the competent authority as qualified to issue such a certificate.
Medical certificates shall remain valid for a maximum period of two years unless the seafarer is under the age of 18, in which case the maximum period of validity shall be one year.
Any amendment proposed by a Contracting Government shall be submitted to the Secretary-General of the Organization, who shall then circulate it to all Members of the Organization and all Contracting Governments at least six months prior to its consideration.
Machinery space, main and auxiliary sea inlets and discharges in connection with the operation of machinery shall be fitted with readily accessible valves between the pipes and the shell plating or between the pipes and fabricated boxes attached to the shell plating.
Bilge wells in periodically unattended machinery spaces shall be located and monitored in such a way that the accumulation of liquids is detected at normal angles of trim and heel, and shall be large enough to accommodate easily the normal drainage during the unattended period.
Where a double bottom is required to be fitted, the inner bottom shall be continued out to the ship’s sides in such a manner as to protect the bottom to the turn of the bilge.
Each Member shall ensure that ships that fly its flag carry a maritime labour certificate and a declaration of maritime labour compliance as required by this Convention.
The Governing Body of the International Labour Office shall keep the working of this Convention under continuous review through a committee established by it with special competence in the area of maritime labour standards.
ach Member shall promote the development of welfare facilities in appropriate ports of the country and determine, after consultation with the shipowners' and seafarers' organizations concerned, which ports are to be regarded as appropriate.
Where the electrical power can normally be supplied by one generator, suitable load-shedding arrangements shall be provided to ensure the integrity of supplies to services required for propulsion and steering as well as the safety of the ship.
The following measures have been drawn up by the shipowner, named in the Maritime Labour Certificate to which this Declaration is attached, to ensure ongoing compliance between inspections.
Operational tests of shipboard navigational equipment shall be carried out at sea as frequently as practicable and as circumstances permit, in particular before hazardous conditions affecting navigation are expected.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraphs, an agreement made by the parties, after a claim under the contract of carriage by sea has arisen, which designates the place where the claimant may institute an action, is effective.
Adequate penalties and other corrective measures for breaches of the requirements of this Convention (including seafarers' rights) and for obstructing inspectors in the performance of their duties shall be provided for and effectively enforced by each Member.
Accommodation spaces are those spaces used for public spaces, corridors, lavatories, cabins, offices, hospitals, cinemas, game and hobby rooms, barber shops, pantries containing no cooking appliances and similar spaces.
The ship shall be re-inclined whenever, in comparison with the approved stability information, a deviation from the lightship displacement exceeding 2% or a deviation of the longitudinal centre of gravity exceeding 1% of Ls is found or anticipated.
Detailed requirements for the maritime labour certificate and the declaration of maritime labour compliance, including a list of the matters that must be inspected and approved, are set out in Part A of the Code.
The requirements under paragraph 3 of this Standard shall include a completion of a training course approved or recognized by the competent authority, which covers practical cookery, food and personal hygiene, food storage, stock control, and environmental protection and catering health and safety.
In the circumstances referred to in Standard A4.5, paragraph 6, comparable benefits may be provided through insurance, bilateral and multilateral agreements or other effective means, taking into consideration the provisions of relevant collective bargaining agreements.
The inspection or certification functions which the recognized organizations may be authorized to carry out shall come within the scope of the activities that are expressly mentioned in the Code as being carried out by the competent authority or a recognized organization.
A set of as-built construction drawings and other plans showing any subsequent structural alterations shall be kept on board a ship constructed on or after 1 January 2007.
Proprietors of cargo to pay the cargo's share in the general expenses even if same have been necessitated through neglect or default of the Owners' servants (see Clause 2).
Primary deck coverings, if applied within accommodation and service spaces and control stations, or if applied on cabin balconies of passenger ships constructed on or after 1 July 2008, shall be of approved material which will not readily ignite, this being determined in accordance with the Fire Test Procedures Code.
Where it is necessary to correct large angles of heel, the means adopted shall, where practicable, be self-acting, but in any case where controls to equalization devices are provided they shall be operable from above the bulkhead deck.
Cargo area is that part of the ship that contains cargo holds, cargo tanks, slop tanks and cargo pump-rooms including pump-rooms, cofferdams, ballast and void spaces adjacent to cargo tanks and also deck areas throughout the entire length and breadth of the part of the ship over the aforementioned spaces.
No liability shall arise under the provisions of this Convention for any loss of or damage to or delay in delivery of luggage for which the carrier is responsible under any international convention or national law relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea.
The references made in article VI of the Convention to the Administration and the issuing Administration shall not be construed as preventing any Party from issuing and endorsing certificates under the provisions of these regulations.
In relation to regulation I/7, paragraph 2, the competent persons shall be knowledgeable of the requirements of the Convention and at least one of them shall have knowledge of the system of training and certification of the Party concerned.
Neither the carrier nor the ship shall be responsible in any event for loss or damage to, or in connection with, goods if the nature or value thereof has been knowingly mis-stated by the shipper in the Bill of Lading".
In combination carriers, the arrangements for isolating slop tanks containing oil or oil residues from other cargo tanks shall consist of blank flanges which will remain in position at all times when cargoes other than liquid cargoes referred to in regulation 1.6.1 are carried.
Private seafarer recruitment and placement services established in the Member's territory and securing the services of a seafarer for a shipowner, wherever located, should be required to assume obligations to ensure the proper fulfilment by the shipowners of the terms of the employment agreements concluded with seafarers.
If cargo is carried in spaces referred to in regulation 15.5.2, the sidescuttles and their deadlights shall be closed watertight and locked before the cargo is shipped and such closing and locking shall be recorded in such log-book as may be prescribed by the Administration.
Sidescuttles may, however, be fitted in spaces appropriated alternatively to the carriage of cargo or passengers, but they shall be of such construction as will effectively prevent any person opening them or their deadlights without the consent of the master.
A Party to the present Protocol shall not issue certificates under, and in accordance with, the provisions of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, as adopted on 1 November 1974.
A ship shall in no case be so loaded that when it is in salt water the subdivision load line mark appropriate to the particular voyage and service configuration is submerged.
However, proof to the contrary shall not be admissible when the Bill of Lading has been transferred to a third party acting in good faith.
The Administration shall provide the ship with an appropriate document as evidence of  compliance of construction and equipment with the requirements of regulation 11-2/19 of SOLAS1974.
If the main propulsion machinery, auxiliary machinery and boilers are in two or more watertight compartments, the pumps available for bilge service shall be distributed as far as is possible throughout these compartments.
Every vessel shall at all times maintain a proper look-out by sight and hearing as well as by all available means appropriate in the prevailing circumstances and conditions so as to make a full appraisal of the situation and of the risk of collision.
Ninety days commencing from the day when the carrier has been identified, or the registered owner or bareboat charterer has rebutted the presumption that it is the carrier, pursuant to article 37, paragraph 2.
The Administration may, however, authorize the fitting of this valve on the after side of the collision bulkhead provided that the valve is readily accessible under all service conditions and the space in which it is located is not a cargo space. All valves shall be of steel, bronze or other approved ductile material.
For the purpose of updating the knowledge of masters, officers and radio operators, each Administration shall ensure that the texts of recent changes in national and international regulations concerning the safety of life at sea, security and the protection of the marine environment are made available to ships entitled to fly its flag.
A separate permanently installed pumping and piping arrangement incorporating a manifold, provided with a shut-off valve and a blank flange, shall be provided for discharging the contents of the slop tanks directly to the open deck for disposal to shore reception facilities when the ship is in the dry cargo mode.
Every seafarer who is designated to provide medical first aid on board ship shall be required to demonstrate the competence to undertake the tasks, duties and responsibilities listed in column 1 of table A-VI/4-1.
Ships constructed on or after 1 October 1994, in lieu of the provision of the second sentence of paragraph 2, shall comply with the following requirements:The source of stored energy shall be protected to preclude critical depletion by the automatic starting system, unless a second independent means of starting is provided.
The master of every ship is bound to ensure that watchkeeping arrangements are adequate for maintaining a safe navigational or cargo watch.
Except for watertight doors, weather tight doors (semi-watertight doors), doors leading to the open deck and doors which need to be reasonably gas tight, all "A" class doors located in stairways, public spaces and main vertical zone bulkheads in escape routes shall be equipped with a self-closing hose port.
Deadweight is the difference in tonnes between the displacement of a ship in water of a specific gravity of 1.025 at the load waterline corresponding to the assigned summer free board and the light weight of the ship.
Each Member shall have national policies to promote employment in the maritime sector and to encourage career and skill development and greater employment opportunities for seafarers domiciled in its territory.
In particular, national or local joint occupational safety and health protection and accident prevention committees or ad hoc working parties and on-board committees, on which shipowners' and seafarers' organizations concerned are represented, should be established.
Watertight doors or ramps fitted to internally subdivide large cargo spaces shall be closed before the voyage commences and shall be kept closed during navigation; the time of opening such doors in port and of closing them before the ship leaves port shall be entered in the log-book.
Partial subdivision draught (dp) is the light service draught plus 60% of the difference between the light service draught and the deepest subdivision draught.
Despite the duties and obligations of pilots, their presence on board does not relieve the master or the officer in charge of the navigational watch from their duties and obligations for the safety of the ship.
Each Member shall require that shipowners take measures, such as those set out in paragraph 4 of this Standard, to provide seafarers with a means to transmit all or part of their earnings to their families or dependants or legal beneficiaries.
At periodical intervals not exceeding five years, a lightweight survey shall be carried out on allpassenger ships to verify any changes in lightship displacement and longitudinal centre of gravity.
Each Member shall establish clear objectives and standards covering the administration of its inspection and certification systems, as well as adequate overall procedures for its assessment of the extent to which those objectives and standards are being attained.
The division of the annual leave with pay into parts, or the accumulation of such annual leave due in respect of one year together with a subsequent period of leave, may be authorized by the competent authority or through the appropriate machinery in each country.
A double bottom shall be fitted extending from the collision bulkhead to the after peak bulkhead, as far as this is practicable and compatible with the design and proper working of the ship.
Watertight door controls, including hydraulic piping and electric cables, shall be kept as close as practicable to the bulkhead in which the doors are fitted, in order to minimize the likelihood of them being involved in any damage which the ship may sustain.
Where a carrier issues a document other than a bill of lading to evidence the receipt of the goods to be carried, such a document is prima facie evidence of the conclusion of the contract of carriage by sea and the taking over by the carrier of the goods as therein described.
Where, following a more detailed inspection, the working and living conditions on the ship are found not to conform to the requirements of this Convention, the authorized officer shall forthwith bring the deficiencies to the attention of the master of the ship, with required deadlines for their rectification.
The control panel shall be powered from the main source of electrical power and the emergency source of electrical power defined by regulation II-1/42 unless other arrangements are permitted by the regulations, as applicable.
The master and the officer in charge of the navigational watch, when arranging lookout duty, shall have due regard to the bridge equipment and navigational aids available for use, their limitations, procedures and safeguards implemented.
There shall be no restriction on the construction of bulkheads not required for cargo ships to be "A" or "B" class divisions except that the area of any accommodation space or spaces bounded by a continuous "A" or "B" class division shall in no case exceed 50 m, except in individual cases where2 "C" class bulkheads arc required in accordance with table 9.5.
As soon as the present Convention enters into force, the text shall be transmitted by the Secretary-General of the Organization to the Secretary-General of the United Nations for registration and publication, in accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.
Nothing in this Convention affects a right of the carrier or a performing party that may exist pursuant to the contract of carriage or the applicable law to retain the goods to secure the payment of sums due.
The validity of the maritime labour certificate shall be subject to an intermediate inspection by the competent authority, or by a recognized organization duly authorized for this purpose, to ensure continuing compliance with the national requirements implementing this Convention.
Nothing contained in this Convention prevents a Contracting State from applying any other international convention which is already in force at the date of this Convention and which applies mandatorily to contracts of carriage of goods primarily by a mode of transport other than transport by sea.
The after peak bulkhead may, however, be stepped below the bulkhead deck, provided the degree of safety of the ship as regards subdivision is not thereby diminished.
The standard medical report form for seafarers required under Part A of this Code should be designed to facilitate the exchange of medical and related information concerning individual seafarers between ship and shore in cases of illness or injury.
In this way, Members which have ratified this Convention can ascertain the kind of action that might be expected of them under the corresponding general obligation in Part A, as well as action that would not necessarily be required.
Each Member should require the recognized organizations to maintain records of the services performed by them such that they are able to demonstrate achievement of the required standards in the items covered by the services.
The number of consecutive automatic attempts which fail to produce a start shall be limited to safeguard sufficient starting air pressure. An alarm shall be provided to indicate low starting air pressure set at a level which still permits starting operations of the propulsion machinery.
At the request of not less than one third of the Contracting States to this Convention, the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall convene a conference of the Contracting States for revising or amending it.
Except for the obligations described above, neither the Charterers nor the Owners shall be responsible for the consequences of any strikes or lock-outs preventing or affecting the actual loading or discharging of the cargo.
A documentary shipper is subject to the obligations and liabilities imposed on the shipper pursuant to this chapter and pursuant to article 55, and is entitled to the shipper’s rights and defences provided by this chapter and by chapter 13.
Every amendment adopted by such a Conference by a two-thirds majority of the Contracting Governments present and voting shall be communicated by the Secretary-General of the Organization to all Contracting Governments for acceptance.
The indicator panel on the navigation bridge shall be equipped with a mode selection function "harbour/sea voyage" so arranged that an audible alarm is given on the navigation bridge if the ship leaves harbour with the bow doors, inner doors, stern ramp or any other sideshell doors not closed or any closing device not in the correct position.
The fire safety objectives set out in paragraph 1 shall be achieved by ensuring compliance with the prescriptive requirements specified in parts B, C, D, E or G, or by alternative design and arrangements which comply with part F.
Each Member that operates a public seafarer recruitment and placement service shall ensure that the service is operated in an orderly manner that protects and promotes seafarers employment rights as provided in this Convention.
These cofferdams shall not be open to a double bottom, pipe tunnel, pump-room or other enclosed space, nor shall they be used for cargo or ballast and shall not be connected to piping systems serving oil cargo or ballast.
Each Member shall effectively exercise its jurisdiction and control over seafarer recruitment and placement services, if these are established in its territory.
Where the size of the ship, the activity in which it is to be engaged and its layout make this reasonable and practical, sleeping rooms should be planned and equipped with a private bathroom, including a toilet, so as to provide reasonable comfort for the occupants and to facilitate tidiness.
The total amount recoverable shall be calculated by reference to the value of such goods at the place and time at which the goods are discharged from the ship in accordance with the contract or should have been so discharged.
In addition, a copy of the CAS Final Report which was reviewed by the Administration for the issue of the Statement of Compliance and a copy of the relevant Review Record shall be placed on board to accompany the Statement of Compliance.
The carrier is liable for loss resulting from loss of or damage to the goods, as well as from delay in delivery, if the occurrence which caused the loss, damage or delay took place while the goods were in his charge as defined in article 4, unless the carrier proves that he, his servants or agents took all measures that could reasonably be required to avoid the occurrence and its consequences.
Administrations shall require that records of daily hours of rest of seafarers be maintained in a standardized format!, in the working language or languages of the ship and in English, to allow monitoring and verification of compliance with the provisions of this section.
The Administration authorizing ships to participate in trials shall be satisfied that such trials are conducted in a manner that provides at least the same degree of safety, security and pollution prevention as provided by these regulations.
The master shall ensure, before the ship proceeds on any voyage, that an entry in the log-book is made of the time of the last closing of the doors specified in paragraph 13 and the time of any opening of particular doors in accordance with paragraph 14.
The cargo shall be loaded and discharged within the number of total running days/hours as indicated in Box 16, weather permitting, Sundays and holidays excepted, unless used, in which event time used shall count.
In the latter case, if the reservation omitted relates to particulars furnished by the shipper for insertion in the bill of lading, the carrier has no right of indemnity from the shipper pursuant to paragraph 1 of this article.
An amendment proposed by a government must have been proposed by, or be supported by, at least five governments of Members that have ratified the Convention or by the group of Shipowner or Seafarer representatives referred to in this paragraph.
In order to better ensure cooperation between inspectors and shipowners, seafarers and their respective organizations, and to maintain or improve seafarers' working and living conditions, the competent authority should consult the representatives of such organizations at regular intervals as to the best means of attaining these ends.
Nothing in this Convention imposes liability on the master or crew of the ship or on an employee of the carrier or of a maritime performing party.
Adequate provision shall be made to ensure that the inspectors have the training, competence, terms of reference, powers, status and independence necessary or desirable so as to enable them to carry out the verification and ensure the compliance referred to in paragraph 1 of this Standard.
In the case of Members whose ratifications of this Convention were registered before the adoption of the amendment, the text of the amendment shall be communicated to them for ratification.
Hours of rest may be divided into no more than two periods, one of which shall be at least six hours in length, and the interval between consecutive periods of rest shall not exceed 14 hours.
The officer in charge of the navigational watch shall positively identify all relevant navigation marks.
The condition of the ship and its equipment shall be maintained to conform with the provisions of the present regulations to ensure that the ship in all respects will remain fit to proceed to sea without danger to the ship or persons on board.
Each Member shall encourage the establishment of welfare boards which shall regularly review welfare facilities and services to ensure that they are appropriate in the light of changes in the needs of seafarers resulting from technical, operational and other developments in the shipping industry.
“Competent court” means a court in a Contracting State that, according to the rules on the internal allocation of jurisdiction among the courts of that State, may exercise jurisdiction over the dispute.
Subject to paragraph 9 of this Article, for Members referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, the Convention as amended shall come into force 12 months after the date of acceptance referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article or 12 months after the date on which their ratifications of the Convention have been registered, whichever date is later.
A Certificate called a High-Speed Craft Safety Certificate is issued after completion of an initial or renewal survey to a craft which complies with the requirements of the 1994 HSC Code or the 2000 HSC Code, as appropriate.
This Standard is without prejudice to the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers, 1978, as amended (STCW 1978).
After the date on which an amendment to the present Protocol is deemed to have been accepted under article VI, any instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession deposited shall apply to the present Protocol as amended.
Whenever radar is in use, the officer in charge of the navigational watch shall select an appropriate range scale and observe the display carefully, and shall ensure that plotting or systematic analysis is commenced in ample time.
In passenger ships, except in cargo spaces, all linings, grounds, draught stops and ceilings shall be non-combustible material except in mail rooms, baggage rooms, saunas or refrigerated compartments of service spaces.